risk factors 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount. as of december 31, 2009, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties. interest rate exposure our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities, although our interest costs can also be significantly affected by our on-going financial assurance needs, which are discussed in the financial assurance and insurance obligations section of item 1. as of december 31, 2009, we had $8.8 billion of long-term debt when excluding the impacts of accounting for fair value adjustments attributable to interest rate derivatives, discounts and premiums. the effective interest rates of approximately $3.0 billion of our outstanding debt obligations are subject to change during 2010. the most significant components of our variable-rate debt obligations are (i) $1.1 billion of receive fixed, pay variable interest rate swaps associated with outstanding fixed-rate senior notes; (ii) $817 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to re-pricing on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process; (iii) $767 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to re-pricing within twelve months; and (iv) $257 million of outstanding advances under our canadian credit facility. as of december 31, 2008, the effective interest rates of approximately $3.4 billion of our outstanding debt obligations was subject to change within twelve months. the decrease in outstanding debt obligations exposed to variable interest rates in 2009 is generally as a result of an $850 million decrease in the notional amount of outstanding interest rate swaps offset, in part, by an increase in the portion of our outstanding tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to re-pricing within twelve months. the decline in our variable-rate debt obligations has reduced the potential volatility to our operating results and cash flows that results from fluctuations in market interest rates. we currently estimate that a 100 basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2010 interest expense by approximately $23 million. our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed-rate tax exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds twelve months. in addition, as of december 31, 2009, we have treasury rate locks with a notional amount 56 table of contents of $200 million and forward-starting interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $525 million. the fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations and various interest rate derivative instruments can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change. we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive derivatives and related positions. these analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. an instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate derivative positions by approximately $610 million at december 31, 2009. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have significant cash and cash equivalent balances as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. these assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in u.s. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. commodity price exposure in the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including aluminum, old corrugated cardboard and old newsprint; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in the markets where we operate. during the three years ended december 31, 2009, we generally have not entered into derivatives to hedge the risks associated with changes in the market prices of these commodities. alternatively, we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues also increase or decrease. during 2009, approximately 34% of the electricity revenue at our waste-to-energy facilities was subject to current market rates, and we currently expect that nearly 50% of our electricity revenues at our waste-to-energy facilities will be at market rates in 2010. our exposure to variability associated with changes in market prices for electricity has increased because several long-term power purchase agreements have expired. the energy markets have changed significantly since the expiring contracts were executed and we have found that medium- and long-term electricity contracts are less favorable in the current environment. as we renegotiate our power-purchase agreements, we expect that a more substantial portion of our energy sales at our waste-to-energy facilities and landfill gas-to-energy plants will be based on current market rates. accordingly, in 2010 we will be implementing a more actively managed energy program, which will include a hedging strategy intended to decrease the exposure of our revenues to volatility due to market prices for electricity. currency rate exposure from time to time, we have used currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. in addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the company. 57 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. the epa has issued new source performance standards and emission guidelines for large and small municipal waste-to-energy facilities, which include stringent emission limits for various pollutants based on maximum achievable control technology standards. these sources are also subject to operating permit requirements under title v of the clean air act. the clean air act requires the epa to review and revise the mact standards applicable to municipal waste-to-energy facilities every five years. the occupational safety and health act of 1970, as amended, establishes certain employer responsibilities, including maintenance of a workplace free of recognized hazards likely to cause death or serious injury, compliance with standards promulgated by the occupational safety and health administration, and various reporting and record keeping obligations as well as disclosure and procedural requirements. various standards for notices of hazards, safety in excavation and demolition work and the handling of asbestos, may apply to our operations. the department of transportation and osha, along with other federal agencies, have jurisdiction over certain aspects of hazardous materials and hazardous waste, including safety, movement and disposal. various state and local agencies with jurisdiction over disposal of hazardous waste may seek to regulate movement of hazardous materials in areas not otherwise preempted by federal law. there are also various state or provincial and local regulations that affect our operations. sometimes states regulations are stricter than federal laws and regulations when not otherwise preempted by federal law. additionally, our collection and landfill operations could be affected by legislative and regulatory measures requiring or encouraging waste reduction at the source and waste recycling. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. while laws that overtly discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory have been upheld in court. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. in 1994, the united states supreme court ruled that a flow control ordinance that gave preference to a local facility that was privately owned was unconstitutional, but in 2007, the court ruled that an ordinance directing waste to a facility owned by the local government was constitutional. in addition, from time to time, the united states congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control or the adoption of legislation affecting interstate transportation of waste at the state level could adversely affect our operations. courts interpretation of flow control legislation or the supreme court decisions also could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. many states, provinces and local jurisdictions have enacted fitness laws that allow the agencies that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the applicant or permit holder compliance history. some states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further and consider the compliance history of the parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant or permit holder. these laws authorize the agencies to make determinations of an applicant or permit holder fitness 12 table of contents to be awarded a contract to operate, and to deny or revoke a contract or permit because of unfitness, unless there is a showing that the applicant or permit holder has been rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies and procedures put in place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for disclosures relating to our current assessments of the impact of regulations on our current and future operations. item 1a. risk factors. in an effort to keep our stockholders and the public informed about our business, we may make forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. forward-looking statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, forecast, project, estimate, intend and words of similar nature and generally include statements containing: projections about accounting and finances; plans and objectives for the future; projections or estimates about assumptions relating to our performance; or our opinions, views or beliefs about the effects of current or future events, circumstances or performance. you should view these statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. they are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. all phases of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2011 and beyond. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our revenues and our operating margins. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to quickly adjust to match shifting volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may limit the number or amount of services requested by customers and our ability to implement our pricing strategy. in addition to disruption in the credit markets, recent and continuing economic conditions have negatively affected business and consumer spending generally. if our commercial customers do not have access to capital, both our volumes and our ability to increase new business will be negatively impacted. the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. in north america, the industry consists primarily of two national waste management companies, regional companies and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources, including smaller companies that specialize in certain discrete areas of waste management. we compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. these counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, competitors may reduce 13 table of contents their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively-bid contracts. when this happens, we may be unable to execute our pricing strategy, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business. if we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected. our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. we have adopted a business strategy built on three key initiatives: know more about our customers and how to service them than anyone else; use conversion and processing technology to extract more value from the materials we manage; and continuously improve our operational efficiency. in the short-term, we intend to pursue these initiatives through efforts to: grow our markets by implementing customer-focused growth, through customer segmentation and through strategic acquisitions, while maintaining our pricing discipline and increasing the amount of recyclable materials we handle each year; grow our customer loyalty, in part through the use of enabling technologies; grow into new markets by investing in greener technologies; and pursue initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure. there are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following: our strategy may result in a significant change to our business, and our employees, customers or investors may not embrace and support our strategy. customer segmentation is new to our business, and it could result in fragmentation of our efforts, rather than improved customer relationships. in efforts to enhance our revenues, we have implemented price increases and environmental fees, and we have continued our fuel surcharge program to offset fuel costs. the loss of volumes as a result of price increases may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. our ability to make strategic acquisitions and invest in greener technologies depends on our ability to identify desirable acquisition or investment targets, negotiate advantageous transactions despite competition for such opportunities, and realize the benefits we expect from those transactions. acquisitions and/or investments may not increase our earnings in the timeframe anticipated, or at all, due to difficulties operating in new markets or providing new service offerings, failure to operate within budget, integration issues, or regulatory issues, among others. we continue to seek to divest underperforming and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of underperforming and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low-margin businesses. in addition to the risks set forth above, implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses and changes in industry trends. further, we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. if we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business plan successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. the seasonal nature of our business and one-time special projects cause our results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we 14 table of contents operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes that most often impact our southern group, can actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. while weather-related and other one-time occurrences can boost revenues through additional work, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue sometimes generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. during 2010, our financial results included revenue generated as a result of clean-up efforts in connection with the oil spill along the gulf coast and the substantial flooding in tennessee; however, these special projects have a limited time span. certain weather conditions, including severe weather storms, may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. the operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when waste flows are generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities. for these and other reasons, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, as well as contractual obligations, that may result in significant liabilities. there is risk of incurring significant environmental liabilities in the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of waste materials. under applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. under current law, we could also be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. this risk is of particular concern as we execute our growth strategy, partially though acquisitions, because we may be unsuccessful in identifying and assessing potential liabilities during our due diligence investigations. further, the counterparties in such transactions may be unable to perform their indemnification obligations owed to us. additionally, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and, under applicable law, we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, we are currently, and we may in the future, become involved in legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and local communities, citizen groups, landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. further, we often enter into contractual arrangements with landowners imposing obligations on us to meet certain regulatory or contractual conditions upon site closure or upon termination of the agreements. compliance with these arrangements is inherently subject to subjective determinations and may result in disputes, including litigation. costs to remediate or restore the condition of closed sites may be significant. 15 table of contents the waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level in the united states and canada have a substantial impact on our business, and compliance with such regulations is costly. a large number of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. among other things, they may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer or processing facilities or on expanding existing facilities; limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; or mandates regarding the disposal of solid waste, including requirements to recycle rather than landfill certain waste streams. regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. the costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. the permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we also have significant financial obligations relating to capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation at our existing landfills. we establish accruals for these estimated costs, but we could underestimate such accruals. environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, requiring our expenditures to materially exceed our current accruals. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control or the adoption of legislation affecting interstate transportation of waste at the state level could adversely affect our operations. courts interpretation of flow control legislation or the supreme court decisions also could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. efforts to curtail the emission of ghgs, to ameliorate the effect of climate change, continue to advance on the federal, regional, and state level. our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a ghg. in the 111th congress, the u.s. house of representatives passed a bill that would regulate ghgs comprehensively. while the centerpiece of that bill would be a ghg emission allowance cap-and-trade system, neither landfills nor qualifying waste-to-energy plants would be compelled to hold allowances for their ghg emissions. rather, they would be subject to certain further emission controls to be determined through administrative rule-making. should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. absent comprehensive federal legislation to control ghg emissions, the epa is moving ahead administratively under its existing clean air act authority. in 2010, the epa published a prevention of significant deterioration ( psd ) and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule ( psd tailoring rule ). the rule sets new 16 table of contents thresholds for ghg emissions that define when clean air act permits are required under the psd and title v programs. the epa legal authority to tailor statutory thresholds in this rule has been challenged, and the epa intends to delay regulation of certain emissions pending further regulatory analysis. we cannot predict the final requirements of stationary source rules that might apply to landfills and waste-to-energy facilities as a result of this rulemaking and, accordingly, further developments in this area could have a material effect on our results of operations or cash flows. our business depends on our reputation and the value of our brand. we believe we have developed a reputation for high-quality service, reliability and social and environmental responsibility, and we believe our brand symbolizes these attributes. the waste management brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and thus have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. significant shortages in fuel supply or increases in fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. the price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, or opec, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. we have seen average quarterly fuel prices increase by as much as 30% on a year-over-year basis and decrease by as much as 47% on a year-over-year basis within the last two years. we need fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and our equipment used in our landfill operations. supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. additionally, as fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses increase and many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. additionally, we are currently party to a pending suit that pertains to our fuel and environmental charge and generally alleges that such charges were not properly disclosed, were unfair, and were contrary to contract. see note 11 of the consolidated financial statements for more information. regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, the increased operating costs will decrease our operating margins. some of our customers, including governmental entities, have suffered financial difficulties affecting their credit risk, which could negatively impact our operating results. we provide service to a number of governmental entities and municipalities, some of which have suffered significant financial difficulties due to the downturn in the u.s. economy and reduced tax revenue. some of these entities could be unable to pay amounts owed to us or renew contracts with us at previous or increased rates. many non-governmental customers have also suffered serious financial difficulties, and the inability of our customers to pay us in a timely manner or to pay increased rates could negatively affect our operating results. in addition, the financial difficulties of municipalities could result in a decline in investors demand for municipal bonds and a correlating increase in interest rates. as of december 31, 2010, we had $611 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to re-pricing on either a daily or a weekly basis through a remarketing process and $405 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to re-pricing within the next twelve months. if the weakness in the municipal debt market results in re-pricing of our tax-exempt bonds at significantly higher interest rates, we will incur increased interest expenses that may negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. 17 table of contents we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide and, therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily-required levels. we face the risk of incurring additional costs for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of other insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby enabling us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. the inability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect of significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may subject us to additional risks. to the extent our insurers were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to variable-rate tax-exempt debt, capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, fund trust and escrow accounts or rely upon wm financial guarantees. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. general economic factors may adversely affect the cost of our current financial assurance instruments and changes in regulations may impose stricter requirements on the types of financial assurance that will be accepted. additionally, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. it is possible that we could be forced to deposit cash to collateralize our obligations. other forms of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, and any requirements to use cash to support our obligations would negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. we may record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. events that could, in some circumstances, lead to an impairment include, but are not limited to, shutting down a facility or operation or abandoning a development project or the denial of an expansion permit. if we determine a development or expansion project is impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such facility or project reduced by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet, which is required to be assessed for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may be required to incur charges against earnings if we determine that events such as those described cause impairments. any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our revenues will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and glass, all of which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. the majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard, known as occ, and old newsprint, or onp. the fluctuations in the market prices or demand for these commodities can affect our operating income and cash flows negatively, as we experienced in 2008, or positively, as we experienced in 2010. in the fourth quarter of 2008, the monthly market prices for occ and onp fell by 79% and 72%, respectively, from their high points within the year. additionally, the decline in market prices for commodities resulted in a year-over-year decrease in revenue of $447 million in 2009. increases in the prices of recycling commodities in 2010 resulted in an increase in revenues of $423 million as compared with 2009. market prices for recyclable commodities have increased significantly from the near-historic lows experienced in late 2008 and early 2009. for the twelve months of 2010, overall commodity 18 table of contents prices have increased approximately 57% as compared with 2009. despite the recent positive trend in commodity prices, these prices may fluctuate substantially and without notice in the future. additionally, our recycling operations offer rebates to suppliers. therefore, even if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase. in other circumstances, the rebates may be subject to a floor, such that as market prices decrease, any expected profit margins on materials subject to the rebate floor are eliminated. there are also significant price fluctuations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy-related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery, waste-to-energy and independent power production plant operations that can significantly impact our revenue from yield provided by such businesses. in most of the markets in which we operate, electricity prices correlate with natural gas prices. for the year ended december 31, 2009, we experienced declines in revenue from yield at our waste-to-energy facilities of $76 million, due to the expiration of certain above-market contracts, resulting in greater exposure to market pricing. during the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, approximately 47%, 46% and 24%, respectively, of the electricity revenue at our waste-to-energy facilities was subject to current market rates. our waste-to-energy facilities exposure to market price volatility will continue to increase as additional long-term contracts expire. we enter into receive fixed, pay variable electricity swaps to mitigate the variability in our revenues and cash flows caused by fluctuations in the market prices for electricity. these swaps are generally short-term in nature. additionally, revenues from our independent power production plants can be affected by price fluctuations. if we are unable to successfully negotiate long-term contracts, or if market prices are at lower levels for sustained periods, our revenues could be adversely affected. the development and acceptance of alternatives to landfill disposal and waste-to-energy facilities could reduce our ability to operate at full capacity and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. our customers are increasingly diverting waste to alternatives to landfill and waste-to-energy disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. in addition, several state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard and food waste, at landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. where such organic waste is not banned from the landfill or waste-to-energy facility, large customers such as grocery stores and restaurants are choosing to divert their organic waste from landfills. zero-waste goals (sending no waste to the landfill) have been set by many of north america largest companies. although such mandates and initiatives help to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to landfills and waste-to-energy facilities in certain areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities at full capacity, as well as affecting the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal and waste-to-energy services. our landfills and our waste-to-energy facilities currently provide and have historically provided our highest operating margins. if we are not successful in expanding our service offerings and growing lines of businesses to service waste streams that do not go to landfills or waste-to-energy facilities and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, then our revenues and operating results will decline. additionally, despite the development of new service offerings and lines of business, it is reasonably possible that our revenues and our operating margins could be negatively affected due to disposal alternatives. our operating expenses could increase as a result of labor unions organizing or changes in regulations related to labor unions. labor unions continually attempt to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees are currently represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with these unions. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, our operating expenses could increase significantly as a result of work stoppages, including strikes. any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 table of contents we could face significant liabilities for withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans. we have participated in and contributed to various multiemployer pension plans administered by employer and union trustees. in renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that participate in these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in various plans. when we withdraw from plans, we can incur withdrawal liabilities for those plans that have underfunded pension liabilities. various factors affect our liabilities for a plan underfunded status, including the numbers of retirees and active workers in the plan, the ongoing solvency of participating employers, the investment returns obtained on plan assets, and the ratio of our historical participation in such plan to all employers historical participation. we reflect any withdrawal liability as an operating expense in our statement of operations and as a liability on our balance sheet. we have previously withdrawn several employee bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans, and we recognized related expenses of $26 million in 2010, $9 million in 2009 and $39 million in 2008. we are still negotiating and litigating final resolutions of our withdrawal liability for these previous withdrawals, which could be materially higher than the charges we have recognized. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are involved in civil litigation in the ordinary course of our business and from time-to-time are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with either the operation of our current information technology systems or the development and deployment of new information technology systems that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. if we are not able to develop and protect intellectual property, or if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology, our financial results may suffer. our existing and proposed service offerings to customers may require that we develop or license, and protect, new technologies. we may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market. further, protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of intellectual property is difficult, and any inability to obtain or protect new technologies could impact our services to customers and development of new revenue sources. additionally, a competitor may develop or obtain exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology that provides a revolutionary change in traditional waste management. if we have inferior intellectual property to our competitors, our financial results may suffer. we may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported financial position or operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. 20 table of contents our capital requirements could increase our expenses or cause us to change our growth and development plans. recent economic conditions have reduced our cash flows from operations and could do so in the future. if impacts on our cash flows from operations are significant, we may reduce or suspend capital expenditures, growth activity, dividend declarations or share repurchases. we may choose to incur indebtedness to pay for these activities, and there can be no assurances that we would be able to incur indebtedness on terms we deem acceptable. we also may need to incur indebtedness to refinance scheduled debt maturities, and it is possible that the cost of financing could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. further, our ability to execute our financial strategy and our ability to incur indebtedness depends on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. if we were unable to maintain our investment grade credit ratings in the future, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected. additionally, we have $1.8 billion of debt as of december 31, 2010 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next twelve months because of the combined impact of our tax-exempt bonds, our interest rate swap agreements and borrowings outstanding under our canadian credit facility. therefore, increases in interest rates can increase our interest expenses which also would lower our net income and decrease our cash flow. we may use our three-year, $2.0 billion revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. as of december 31, 2010, we had $1,138 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $862 million. in the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount. as of december 31, 2010, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties. 60 table of contents interest rate exposure our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities, although our interest costs can also be significantly affected by our on-going financial assurance needs, which are discussed in the financial assurance and insurance obligations section of item 1. as of december 31, 2010, we had $8.8 billion of long-term debt when excluding the impacts of accounting for fair value adjustments attributable to interest rate derivatives, discounts and premiums. the effective interest rates of approximately $1.8 billion of our outstanding debt obligations are subject to change during 2011. the most significant components of our variable-rate debt obligations are (i) $500 million of receive fixed, pay variable interest rate swaps associated with outstanding fixed-rate senior notes; (ii) $611 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to re-pricing on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process; (iii) $405 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to re-pricing within twelve months; and (iv) $215 million of outstanding advances under our canadian credit facility. as of december 31, 2009, the effective interest rates of approximately $3.0 billion of our outstanding debt obligations were subject to change within twelve months. the decrease in outstanding debt obligations exposed to variable interest rates in 2010 is generally a result of a $600 million decrease in the notional amount of active interest rate swaps and decreases in our variable-rate tax-exempt bonds. the decline in our variable-rate debt obligations has reduced the potential volatility to our operating results and cash flows that results from fluctuations in market interest rates. we currently estimate that a 100 basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2011 interest expense by approximately $13 million. our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed-rate tax exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds twelve months. in addition, as of december 31, 2010, we have forward-starting interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $525 million. the fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations and various interest rate derivative instruments can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change. we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive derivatives and related positions. these analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. an instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate derivative positions by approximately $658 million at december 31, 2010. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have significant cash and cash equivalent balances as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. these assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in u.s. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. commodity price exposure in the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including aluminum, old corrugated cardboard and old newsprint; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets where we operate. with the exception of electricity commodity derivatives, which are discussed below, we generally have not entered into derivatives to hedge the risks associated with changes in the market prices of these commodities during the three years ended december 31, 2010. alternatively, we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues also increase or decrease. during 2010, approximately 47% of the electricity revenue at our waste-to-energy facilities was subject to current market rates, and we currently expect that nearly 54% of our electricity revenues at our waste-to-energy facilities will be at market rates by the end of 2011. our exposure to variability associated with changes in market prices for electricity has increased because several long-term power purchase agreements have expired. the energy markets have changed significantly since the expiring contracts were executed and we have found that medium- and long-term electricity contracts are less favorable in the current environment. as we renegotiate our power-purchase agreements, we expect that a more substantial portion of our energy sales at our waste-to-energy facilities and landfill gas-to-energy plants will be based on current market rates. accordingly, in 2010 we implemented a more 61 table of contents actively managed energy program, which includes a hedging strategy intended to decrease the exposure of our revenues to volatility due to market prices for electricity. refer to note 8 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our electricity commodity derivatives. currency rate exposure from time to time, we use currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. in addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the company. refer to note 8 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our foreign currency derivatives. 62 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. the epa recently clarified in its november 2014 policy memorandum that states may rely on waste-derived biogenic feedstocks in their future proposed compliance plans required by the proposed clean power plan rules. this recognition by the epa may create new or expanded opportunities for renewable energy projects. we are taking steps to anticipate the future needs of our customers which include investing in and developing ever-more-advanced recycling and reuse technologies. potential climate change and ghg regulatory initiatives have influenced our business strategy to provide low-carbon services to our customers, and we increasingly view our ability to offer lower carbon services as a key component of our business growth. if the u.s. were to impose a carbon tax or other form of ghg regulation increasing demand for low-carbon service offerings in the future, the services we are developing will be increasingly valuable. in 2011, the epa published the non-hazardous secondary materials ( nhsm ) rule, which provides the standards and procedures for identifying whether nhsm are solid waste under rcra when used as fuels or ingredients in combustion units. the epa also published new source performance standards and emission guidelines for commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units, and maximum achievable control technology standards for commercial and industrial boilers. the epa published clarifications and amendments to these rules in 2013, and there is litigation surrounding the rules. although the recently published amendments are generally favorable to our industry, some of the potential regulatory interpretations are undergoing review and other regulatory outcomes may be dependent on case-by-case administrative determinations. these could have a significant impact on some of our projects in which we are seeking to convert biomass or other secondary materials into products, fuels or energy. therefore, it is not possible to quantify the financial impact of these rulemakings or pending administrative determinations at the present time. however, we believe the rules and administrative determinations will not have a material adverse impact on our business as a whole and are more likely to facilitate our efforts to reuse or recover energy value from secondary material streams. 13 table of contents in december 2014, the epa issued a final rule regulating the disposal and beneficial use of coal combustion residuals ( ccr ). the regulations encourage beneficial use of ccr in encapsulated uses (e.g., used in cement or wallboard), and use according to established industry standards (e.g., application of sludge for agricultural enrichment). the epa also deemed disposal and beneficial use of ccr at permitted municipal solid waste landfills exempt from the new regulations because the rcra subtitle d standards applicable at municipal solid waste landfills provide at least equivalent protection. the new standards are consistent with our approach to handling ccr at our sites currently, and we believe the new standards will provide a potential growth opportunity for the company. states may impose standards more stringent than the federal program, and we will be monitoring state implementation to determine impact. state, provincial and local regulations there are also various state or provincial and local regulations that affect our operations. each state and province in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. states and provinces have also adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. our landfill operations are affected by the increasing preference for alternatives to landfill disposal. several state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard and food waste, at landfills. the number of cities with food waste recycling requirements and disposal bans continues to grow, while the logistics and economics of food waste recycling remain challenging. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. while laws that overtly discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory have been upheld in court. from time to time, the united states congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. in 1994, the united states supreme court ruled that a flow control ordinance that gave preference to a local facility that was privately owned was unconstitutional, but in 2007, the court ruled that an ordinance directing waste to a facility owned by the local government was constitutional. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control, or courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation, could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. additionally, regulations establishing extended producer responsibility ( epr ) are being considered or implemented in many places around the world, including in canada and the u.s. epr regulations are designed to place either partial or total responsibility on producers to fund the post-use life cycle of the products they create. along with the funding responsibility, producers may be required to take over management of local recycling programs by taking back their products from end users or managing the collection operations and recycling processing infrastructure. there is no federal law establishing epr in the u.s. or canada; however, state, provincial and local governments could, and in some cases have, taken steps to implement epr regulations. if wide-ranging epr regulations were adopted, they could have a fundamental impact on the waste, recycling and other streams we manage and how we operate our business, including contract terms and pricing. many states, provinces and local jurisdictions have enacted fitness laws that allow the agencies that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the 14 table of contents applicant or permit holder compliance history. some states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further and consider the compliance history of the parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant or permit holder. these laws authorize the agencies to make determinations of an applicant or permit holder fitness to be awarded a contract to operate, and to deny or revoke a contract or permit because of unfitness, unless there is a showing that the applicant or permit holder has been rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies and procedures put in place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations. foreign import regulation enforcement or implementation of foreign regulations can affect our ability to export products. in 2013, the chinese government began to strictly enforce regulations that establish limits on moisture and non-conforming materials that may be contained in imported recycled paper and plastics as well as restricting the import of certain other plastic recyclables. the higher quality expectations resulting from initiatives such as operation green fence can drive up operating costs in the recycling industry, particularly for single stream mrfs. single stream mrfs process a wide range of commingled materials and tend to receive a higher percentage of non-recyclables, which results in increased processing and residual disposal costs. despite these increased costs, we believe we are well positioned among our potential competitors to respond to and comply with such regulations. we are revising our service agreements to address these increased costs and are working with stakeholders to educate the general public on the need to recycle properly. hydraulic fracturing regulation our energy services line of business provides specialized environmental management and disposal services for oil and gas exploration and production operations. recently, there has been increased attention from the public, some states and the epa on the alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to impact drinking water supplies. there is also heightened regulatory focus on emissions of methane that occur during drilling and transportation of natural gas, as well as protective disposal of drilling residuals. increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing and new rules regarding the treatment and disposal of wastes associated with exploration and production operations could increase our costs to provide oilfield services and reduce our margins and revenue from such services. on the other hand, we believe the size, capital structure, regulatory sophistication and established reliability of our company provide us with an advantage in providing services that must comply with any complex regulatory regime that may govern providing oilfield waste services. emissions from natural gas fueling and infrastructure we currently operate the largest compressed natural gas ( cng ) fleet in the waste industry, and we plan to continue to transition a significant portion of our collection fleet from diesel fuel to cng. we have constructed and operate 72 natural gas fueling stations, 25 of which also serve the public or pre-approved third parties, in 28 states and three canadian provinces. concerns have been raised about the potential for emissions from the fueling stations and infrastructure that serve natural gas-fueled vehicles. we have partnered with the environmental organization environmental defense fund, as well as other heavy-duty equipment users and experts, on an emissions study to be made available to policy makers. we anticipate that this comprehensive study of emissions from our heavy-duty fleet may ultimately result in regulations that will affect equipment manufacturers and will define operating procedures across the industry. additional regulation of, or restrictions on, cng fueling infrastructure or reductions in associated tax incentives could increase our operating costs. we are not yet able to evaluate potential operating changes or costs associated with such regulations, but we do not anticipate that such regulations would have a material adverse impact on our business or our current plan to continue transitioning to cng vehicles. 15 table of contents federal, state and local climate change initiatives in light of regulatory and business developments related to concerns about climate change, we have identified a strategic business opportunity to provide our public and private sector customers with sustainable solutions to reduce their ghg emissions. as part of our on-going marketing evaluations, we assess customer demand for and opportunities to develop waste services offering verifiable carbon reductions, such as waste reduction, increased recycling, and conversion of landfill gas and discarded materials into electricity and fuel. we use carbon life cycle tools in evaluating potential new services and in establishing the value proposition that makes us attractive as an environmental service provider. we are active in support of public policies that encourage development and use of lower carbon energy and waste services that lower users carbon footprints. we understand the importance of broad stakeholder engagement in these endeavors, and actively seek opportunities for public policy discussion on more sustainable materials management practices. in addition, we work with stakeholders at the federal and state level in support of legislation that encourages production and use of renewable, low-carbon fuels and electricity. we continue to assess the physical risks to company operations from the effects of severe weather events and use risk mitigation planning to increase our resiliency in the face of such events. we are investing in infrastructure to withstand more severe storm events, which may afford us a competitive advantage and reinforce our reputation as a reliable service provider through continued service in the aftermath of such events. item 1a. risk factors. in an effort to keep our stockholders and the public informed about our business, we may make forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. forward-looking statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, forecast, project, estimate, intend and words of a similar nature and generally include statements containing: projections about accounting and finances; plans and objectives for the future; projections or estimates about assumptions relating to our performance; or our opinions, views or beliefs about the effects of current or future events, circumstances or performance. you should view these statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. they are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. all aspects of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2015 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the company. the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. in north america, the industry consists primarily of two national waste management companies and regional and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources, including companies that 16 table of contents specialize in certain discrete areas of waste management, operators of alternative disposal facilities and companies that seek to use parts of the waste stream as feedstock for renewable energy and other by-products. some of our regional competitors can be significant competitors in local markets and are pursuing aggressive regional growth strategies. we compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. these counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, some of our competitors may have lower financial expectations, allowing them to reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively-bid contracts, including large national accounts and exclusive franchise arrangements with municipalities. when this happens, we may lose customers and be unable to execute our pricing strategy, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business. if we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected. our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. implementation of our strategy will require effective management of our operational, financial and human resources and will place significant demands on those resources. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview for more information on our business strategy. there are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following: our employees, customers or investors may not embrace and support our strategy. we may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to manage our strategy effectively. in efforts to enhance our revenues, we have implemented price increases and environmental fees, and we have continued our fuel surcharge program to offset fuel costs. the loss of volumes as a result of price increases may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. we may be unsuccessful in implementing improvements to operational efficiency and such efforts may not yield the intended result. our restructuring may not achieve and/or maintain the goals and cost savings intended. strategic decisions with respect to our asset portfolio may result in impairments to our assets. see item 1a. risk factors we may record material charges against earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. our ability to make strategic acquisitions depends on our ability to identify desirable acquisition targets, negotiate advantageous transactions despite competition for such opportunities, fund such acquisitions on favorable terms, and realize the benefits we expect from those transactions. acquisitions, investments and/or new service offerings may not increase our earnings in the timeframe anticipated, or at all, due to difficulties operating in new markets or providing new service offerings, failure of emerging technologies to perform as expected, failure to operate within budget, integration issues, or regulatory issues, among others. integration of acquisitions and/or new services offerings could increase our exposure to the risk of inadvertent noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. execution of our strategy, particularly growth through acquisitions, may cause us to incur substantial additional indebtedness, which may divert capital away from our traditional business operations and other financial plans. 17 table of contents we continue to seek to divest underperforming and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of underperforming and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low-margin businesses. in addition to the risks set forth above, implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses and changes in industry trends. we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. if we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business strategy successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. compliance with existing or future regulations and/or enforcement of such regulations may restrict or change our operations, increase our operating costs or require us to make additional capital expenditures. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level in the united states and canada have a substantial impact on our business, and compliance with such regulations is costly. a large number of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. in recent years, we have perceived an increase in both the amount of government regulation and the number of enforcement actions being brought by regulatory entities against operations in the waste services industry. we expect this heightened governmental focus on regulation and enforcement to continue. among other things, governmental regulations and enforcement actions may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer, recycling or processing facilities or on expanding existing facilities; limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; mandates regarding the management of solid waste, including requirements to recycle, divert or otherwise process certain waste, recycling and other streams; or limitations or restrictions on the recycling, processing or transformation of waste, recycling and other streams. regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. the costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. the permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we also have significant financial obligations relating to final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation at our existing landfills. we establish accruals for these estimated costs, but we could underestimate such accruals. environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, requiring our expenditures to materially exceed our current accruals. 18 table of contents various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. from time to time, the united states congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste certain types of flow control, or courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation, could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. additionally, regulations establishing extended producer responsibility, or epr, are being considered or implemented in many places around the world, including in canada and the u.s. epr regulations are designed to place either partial or total responsibility on producers to fund the post-use life cycle of the products they create. along with the funding responsibility, producers may be required to take over management of local recycling programs by taking back their products from end users or managing the collection operations and recycling processing infrastructure. there is no federal law establishing epr in the u.s. or canada; however, state, provincial and local governments could, and in some cases have, taken steps to implement epr regulations. if wide-ranging epr regulations were adopted, they could have a fundamental impact on the waste streams we manage and how we operate our business, including contract terms and pricing. a significant reduction in the waste, recycling and other streams we manage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. enforcement or implementation of foreign regulations can affect our ability to export products. in 2013, the chinese government began to strictly enforce regulations that establish limits on moisture and non-conforming materials that may be contained in imported recycled paper and plastics. the higher quality expectations resulting from initiatives such as operation green fence can drive up operating costs in the recycling industry, particularly for single stream mrfs. single stream mrfs process a wide range of commingled materials and tend to receive a higher percentage of non-recyclables, which results in increased processing and residual disposal costs. if operation green fence or other similar initiatives or new regulations increase our operating costs in the future, and we are not able to recapture those costs from our customers, such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our revenues, earnings and cash flows will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and glass, all of which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. the majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard and old newsprint. the fluctuations in the market prices or demand for these commodities, particularly demand from chinese paper mills, can affect our operating income and cash flows negatively, such as we experienced in 2014, 2013 and 2012. as we have increased the size of our recycling operations, we have also increased our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. the decline in market prices in 2014, 2013 and 2012 for commodities resulted in year-over-year decreases in revenue of $53 million, $79 million and $428 million, respectively. additionally, our recycling operations offer rebates to suppliers. therefore, even if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase. in other circumstances, the rebates may be subject to a floor, such that as market prices decrease, any expected profit margins on materials subject to the rebate floor are reduced or eliminated. fluctuation in energy prices also affects our business. significant variations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy-related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery operations can result in corresponding significant impact to our revenue from yield from such operations. additionally, we provide specialized disposal services for oil and gas exploration and production operations through our energy services business. demand for these services may decrease if drilling activity slows due to changes in oil and gas prices, such as the pronounced recent price decreases. any of the commodity prices to which we are subject may fluctuate substantially and without notice in the future. 19 table of contents changes in regulations applicable to oil and gas drilling and production could adversely affect our energy services business. energy services business demand may also be adversely affected if drilling activity slows due to industry conditions beyond our control, in addition to changes in oil and gas prices. changes in laws or government regulations regarding ghg emissions from oil and gas operations and/or hydraulic fracturing could increase our customers costs of doing business and reduce oil and gas exploration and production by customers. recently, there has been increased attention from the public, some states and the epa to the alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to impact drinking water supplies. there is also heightened regulatory focus on emissions of methane that occur during drilling and transportation of natural gas, as well as protective disposal of drilling residuals. increased regulation of oil and gas exploration and production and new rules regarding the treatment and disposal of wastes associated with exploration and production operations could increase our costs to provide oilfield services and reduce our margins and revenue from such services. increasing customer preference for alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our landfill volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. our customers are increasingly diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. in addition, several state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard and food waste, at landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. where such organic waste is not banned from the landfill or waste-to-energy facility, some large customers such as grocery stores and restaurants are choosing to divert their organic waste from landfills. zero-waste goals (sending no waste to the landfill) have been set by many of north america largest companies. although such mandates and initiatives help to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to our landfills which may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. our landfills currently provide and, together with our divested waste-to-energy facilities, have historically provided our highest income from operations margins. if we are not successful in expanding our service offerings and growing lines of businesses to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, then our revenues and operating results may decline. additionally, despite the development of new service offerings and lines of business, it is possible that our revenues and our income from operations margins could be negatively affected due to disposal alternatives. developments in technology could trigger a fundamental change in the waste management industry, as waste streams are increasingly viewed as a resource, which may adversely impact volumes at our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities and our profitability. our company and others have recognized the value of the traditional waste stream as a potential resource. research and development activities are on-going to provide disposal alternatives that maximize the value of waste, including using waste as a source for renewable energy and other valuable by-products. we and many other companies are investing in these technologies. it is possible that such investments and technological advancements may reduce the cost of waste disposal or the value of landfill gas recovery to a level below our costs and may reduce the demand for landfill space. as a result, our revenues and margins could be adversely affected due to advancements in disposal alternatives. if we are not able to develop new service offerings and protect intellectual property, or if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology, our financial results may suffer. our existing and proposed service offerings to customers may require that we invest in, develop or license, and protect, new technologies. research and development of new technologies and investment in emerging technologies often requires significant spending that may divert capital investment away from our traditional business operations. we may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services or emerging technologies in which we have invested, which may 20 table of contents negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market. further, protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of intellectual property is difficult, and any inability to obtain or protect new technologies could impact our services to customers and development of new revenue sources. our company and others are increasingly focusing on new technologies that provide alternatives to traditional disposal and maximize the resource value of waste. if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology that provides a revolutionary change in traditional waste management, or if we have inferior intellectual property to our competitors, our financial results may suffer. our business depends on our reputation and the value of our brand. we believe we have developed a reputation for high-quality service, reliability and social and environmental responsibility, and we believe our brand symbolizes these attributes. the waste management brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, as well as contractual obligations that may result in significant liabilities. there is risk of incurring significant environmental liabilities in the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of waste materials. under applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. under current law, we could also be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. this risk is of particular concern as we execute our growth strategy, partially though acquisitions, because we may be unsuccessful in identifying and assessing potential liabilities during our due diligence investigations. further, the counterparties in such transactions may be unable to perform their indemnification obligations owed to us. additionally, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and, under applicable law, we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, we are currently, and we may in the future, become involved in legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and local communities, citizen groups, landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. 21 table of contents further, we often enter into agreements with landowners imposing obligations on us to meet certain regulatory or contractual conditions upon site closure or upon termination of the agreements. compliance with these agreements inherently involves subjective determinations and may result in disputes, including litigation. costs to remediate or restore the condition of closed sites may be significant. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our revenues and our income from operations margins. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. a weak economy generally results in decreased consumer spending and decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. a weak market for consumer goods can significantly decrease demand by paper mills for recycled corrugated cardboard used in packaging; such decrease in demand can negatively impact commodity prices and our operating income and cash flows. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to quickly adjust to match shifting volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may limit the number or amount of services requested by customers. economic conditions may also limit our ability to implement our pricing strategy. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index, and our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. some of our customers, including governmental entities, have suffered financial difficulties affecting their credit risk, which could negatively impact our operating results. we provide service to a number of governmental entities and municipalities, some of which have suffered significant financial difficulties in recent years, due in part to reduced tax revenue and/or high cost structures. some of these entities could be unable to pay amounts owed to us or renew contracts with us at previous or increased rates. many non-governmental customers have also suffered serious financial difficulties, including bankruptcy in some cases. purchasers of our recyclable commodities can be particularly vulnerable to financial difficulties in times of commodity price volatility. the inability of our customers to pay us in a timely manner or to pay increased rates, particularly large national accounts, could negatively affect our operating results. in addition, the financial difficulties of municipalities could result in a decline in investors demand for municipal bonds and a correlating increase in interest rates. as of december 31, 2014, we had $501 million of variable-rate tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or a weekly basis through a remarketing process and $638 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to repricing within the next twelve months. if the weakness in the municipal debt market results in repricing of our tax-exempt bonds at significantly higher interest rates, we will incur increased interest expenses that may negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. our ability to meet our financial and operating objectives depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain the permits necessary to operate landfill sites. permits to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills and transfer stations, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, 22 table of contents or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities or expanding existing facilities. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant shortages in diesel fuel supply or increases in diesel fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. the price and supply of diesel fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. average diesel fuel prices decreased in both 2014 and 2013 but increased in 2012. we need diesel fuel to run a significant portion of our collection and transfer trucks and our equipment used in our landfill operations. supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. additionally, if fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses increase and many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. additionally, we recently settled litigation that pertained to our fuel and environmental charges included on our invoices, and we may face similar claims in the future. see note 11 of the consolidated financial statements for more information. regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, increased operating costs due to higher diesel fuel prices will decrease our income from operations margins. we are expanding our compressed natural gas ( cng ) truck fleet, which makes us increasingly dependent on the availability of cng and cng fueling infrastructure and vulnerable to cng prices. we currently operate the largest cng fleet in the waste industry, and we plan to continue to transition a significant portion of our collection fleet from diesel fuel to cng. however, cng is not yet broadly available in north america; as a result, we have constructed and operate natural gas fueling stations, some of which also serve the public or pre-approved third parties. until the public and third parties in north america broadly adopt cng, which may not be on the timetable we anticipate, it will remain necessary for us to invest capital in cng fueling infrastructure in order to power our cng fleet. concerns have been raised about the potential for emissions from fueling infrastructure that serve natural gas-fueled vehicles. new regulation of, or restrictions on, cng fueling infrastructure or reductions in associated tax incentives could increase our operating costs. additionally, fluctuations in the price and supply of cng could substantially increase our operating expenses, and a reduction in the existing cost differential between cng and diesel fuel could materially reduce the benefits we anticipate from our investment in cng vehicles. further, our fuel surcharge program is currently indexed to diesel fuel prices, and price fluctuations for cng may not effectively be recovered by this program. we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with the operation of our current information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, as well as the development and deployment of new information technology systems, that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. 23 table of contents a cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. we use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers credit card information. further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. our operating expenses could increase as a result of labor unions organizing or changes in regulations related to labor unions. labor unions continually attempt to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees are currently represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with these unions. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, our operating expenses could increase significantly as a result of work stoppages, including strikes. any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could face significant liabilities for withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans. we are a participating employer in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer, defined benefit pension plans for employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. the risks of participating in these multiemployer plans are different from single-employer plans in that (i) assets contributed to the multiemployer plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees or former employees of other participating employers; (ii) if a participating employer stops contributing to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan may be required to be assumed by the remaining participating employers and (iii) if we choose to stop participating in any of our multiemployer plans, we may be required to pay those plans a withdrawal amount based on the underfunded status of the plan. in connection with our ongoing renegotiations of various collective bargaining agreements, we may discuss and negotiate for the complete or partial withdrawal from one or more of these pension plans. further, business events, such as the discontinuation or nonrenewal of a customer contract, the decertification of a union, or relocation, reduction or discontinuance of certain operations, which result in the decline of company contributions to a multiemployer pension plan, could trigger a partial or complete withdrawal. in the event of a withdrawal, we may incur expenses associated with our obligations for unfunded vested benefits at the time of the withdrawal. various factors affect our liabilities for a plan underfunded status, including the numbers of retirees and active workers in the plan, the ongoing solvency of participating employers, the investment returns obtained on plan assets, and the ratio of our historical participation in such plan to all employers historical participation; depending on such factors, future withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on results of 24 table of contents operations for a particular reporting period. we reflect any withdrawal liability as an operating expense in our statement of operations and as a liability on our balance sheet. we have previously withdrawn several employee bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans, and we recognized related expenses of $4 million in 2014, $5 million in 2013 and $10 million in 2012. we are still negotiating and litigating final resolutions of our withdrawal liability for certain withdrawals, which could be higher than the charges we have recognized. our business is subject to operational and safety risks, including the risk of personal injury to employees and others. providing environmental and waste management services, including constructing and operating landfills, involves risks such as truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, mass instability or waste slides, severe weather and natural disasters, which could potentially result in releases of hazardous materials and odors, injury or death of employees and others, or a need to shut down or reduce operation of our facilities while remedial actions are undertaken. additionally, we have built and are operating cng fueling stations to serve our growing fleet of cng trucks, some of which also serve the public or third parties. operation of fueling stations and landfill gas collection and control systems involves additional risks of fire and explosion. all of these risks expose us to potential liability for pollution and other environmental damages, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, and property damage or destruction. while we seek to minimize our exposure to such risks through comprehensive training and compliance programs, as well as vehicle and equipment maintenance programs, if we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of any applicable insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. any such incidents could also tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide and, therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily-required levels. we face the risk of incurring additional costs for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of other insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby enabling us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. the inability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect of significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may subject us to additional risks. to the extent our insurers are unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims are more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to variable-rate tax-exempt debt, final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, fund trust and escrow accounts or rely upon wm financial guarantees. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. our financial position, which can be negatively affected by asset impairments, our credit profile and general economic factors, may adversely affect the cost of our current financial assurance instruments, and changes in regulations may impose stricter requirements on the types of financial assurance that will be accepted. additionally, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. it is possible that we could be forced to deposit cash to collateralize our obligations. other forms of financial assurance could be more expensive to 25 table of contents obtain, and any requirements to use cash to support our obligations would negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. we may record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ), we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. events that could, in some circumstances, lead to an impairment include, but are not limited to, shutting down a facility or operation or abandoning a development project or the denial of an expansion permit. additionally, declining waste volumes and development of, and customer preference for, alternatives to traditional waste disposal could warrant asset impairments. if we determine an asset or expansion project is impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such asset or project reduced by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet, which is required to be assessed for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may be required to incur charges against earnings if such impairment tests indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying value. any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our capital requirements and our business strategy could increase our expenses, cause us to change our growth and development plans, or fail to maintain our desired credit profile. if economic conditions or other risks and uncertainties cause a significant reduction in our cash flows from operations, we may reduce or suspend capital expenditures, growth and acquisition activity, implementation of our business strategy, dividend declarations or share repurchases. we may choose to incur indebtedness to pay for these activities, although our access to capital markets is not assured and we may not be able to incur indebtedness at a cost that is consistent with current borrowing rates. we also may need to incur indebtedness to refinance scheduled debt maturities, and it is possible that the cost of financing could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. further, our ability to execute our financial strategy and our ability to incur indebtedness is somewhat dependent upon our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon our credit profile, as well as a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including methodologies established and interpreted by third party rating agencies. if we were unable to maintain our investment grade credit ratings in the future, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected. additionally, we have $1.4 billion of debt as of december 31, 2014 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months because of the combined impact of our tax-exempt bonds and borrowings outstanding under our canadian term loan. if interest rates increase, our interest expense would also increase, lowering our net income and decreasing our cash flow. we may use our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and our c$150 million canadian revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available, until maturity in july 2018 and november 2017, respectively. as of december 31, 2014, we had no outstanding borrowings and $785 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the $2.25 billion revolving credit facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $1,465 million, and we had no borrowings under the canadian revolving credit facility. in the event of a default under our credit facilities, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. 26 table of contents the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a ghg. there are a number of legislative and regulatory efforts at the state, regional and federal levels to curtail the emission of ghgs to ameliorate the effect of climate change. should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it could impose costs on our operations that might not be offset by the revenue increases associated with our lower-carbon service options, the materiality of which we cannot predict. in 2010, the epa published a prevention of significant deterioration and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule, which expanded the epa federal air permitting authority to include the six ghgs. the rule sets new thresholds for ghg emissions that define when clean air act permits are required. the current requirements of these rules have not significantly affected our operations or cash flows, due to the tailored thresholds and exclusions of certain emissions from regulation. however, if certain changes to these regulations were enacted, such as lowering the thresholds or the inclusion of biogenic emissions, then the amendments could have an adverse effect on our operating costs. the seasonal nature of our business, severe weather events and one-time special projects cause our results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. the operating results of our first quarter often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when waste flows are generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities. service disruptions caused by severe storms, extended periods of inclement weather or climate extremes resulting from climate change can significantly affect the operating results of the affected areas. on the other hand, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes that most often impact our operations in the southern and eastern u.s., can actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. while weather-related and other one-time occurrences can boost revenues through additional work for a limited time span, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue sometimes generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. for these and other reasons, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. our stock price may be negatively impacted by interim variations in our results. we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and our reputation could be adversely affected, if our businesses, or third parties with whom we have a relationship, were to fail to comply with united states or foreign laws or regulations. some of our projects and new business may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically been prevalent. it is our policy to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate, and we monitor our local partners compliance with such laws as well. our reputation may be adversely affected if we were reported to be associated with corrupt practices or if we or our local partners failed to comply with such laws. such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. additionally, violations of such laws could subject us to significant fines and penalties. 27 table of contents currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are involved in civil litigation in the ordinary course of our business and from time-to-time are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. we may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported financial position or operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount. as of december 31, 2014, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties. interest rate exposure our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities, although our interest costs can also be significantly affected by our on-going financial assurance needs, which are discussed in the financial assurance and insurance obligations section of item 1. as of december 31, 2014, we had $9.4 billion of long-term debt when excluding the impacts of accounting for fair value adjustments attributable to interest rate derivatives, discounts and premiums. the effective interest rates of approximately $1.4 billion of our outstanding debt obligations are subject to change during 2015. the most significant components of our variable-rate debt obligations are (i) $501 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process; (ii) $638 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to repricing within 12 months and (iii) $232 million of outstanding advances under our canadian credit facility. we currently estimate that a 100 basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2015 interest expense by approximately $11.2 million. as of december 31, 2013, the effective interest rates of approximately $2.4 billion of our outstanding debt obligations were subject to change within 12 months. our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed-rate tax exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds twelve months. the fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations and various interest rate derivative instruments, if any, can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change. we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive derivatives and related positions. these analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. an instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate derivative positions by approximately $650 million at december 31, 2014. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have significant cash and cash equivalent balances as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. these assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in u.s. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. commodity price exposure in the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including old corrugated cardboard, old newsprint and plastics; and electricity, which generally 70 table of contents correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets in which we operate. during the three years ended december 31, 2014, we generally have not entered into derivatives to hedge the risks associated with changes in the market prices of these commodities, with the exception of electricity commodity derivatives divested in conjunction with the sale of our wheelabrator business in december 2014. alternatively, we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues also increase or decrease. currency rate exposure we have operations in canada as well as a cost center in india and investments in hong kong. from time to time, we use currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. in addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the company. the foreign currency exposure associated with these investments has not been material. refer to notes 8 and 14 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our foreign currency derivatives. 71 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk... 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates, certain commodity prices and certain equity prices. from time to time, we and certain of our subsidiaries use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are simple agreements with independent third parties that provide for payments based on the notional amount, with no multipliers or leverage. as of december 31, 2001, all of the derivatives were related to actual or anticipated exposures of our transactions, with the exception of two derivatives related to the pulp and paper commodity markets that were entered into for trading purposes. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties to derivatives. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the credit worthiness of the counterparties, all of whom we either consider credit worthy, or who have issued letters of credit to support their credit worthiness. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion on the handling of the enron north america corp. ("enron") waste paper swap agreements. we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes will affect the fair value of our company's market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. this analysis is inherently limited because it represents a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. the effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not covered by sensitivity analysis. fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings effect from the assumed market rate movements. interest rate exposure. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations, which are mainly denominated in u.s. dollars. in addition, we generally use interest rate swaps to either lock-in or limit the variability in the interest expense of certain floating rate debt obligations or to manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt obligations. an instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves would increase the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate swap positions at december 31, 2001 and 2000 by approximately $394 million and $403 million, respectively. this analysis does not reflect the effect that declining interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings, nor the favorable impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments for interest. since a significant portion of our debt is at fixed rates, changes in market interest rates would not significantly impact operating results until and unless our fixed rate debt would need to be refinanced at maturity. commodities price exposure. we market recycled paper products like old newspaper ("onp") and old corrugated containers ("occ"). we started entering into financial swaps in 1999 in an effort to mitigate the risk of recyclable paper price fluctuations. under these financial swap agreements, we generally transfer a 34 floating market price for a fixed price for a fixed period of time. we and the counterparty agree to use a market index as an indicator of the market price during the term of the swap. at december 31, 2001, all, except two, of our waste paper swap agreements were with enron. due to enron's financial situation, collectibility of the funds associated with these instruments is not probable at december 31, 2001 and therefore these instruments were estimated to have no fair value. the derivatives with enron were subsequently terminated in early 2002. the net fair value of two derivatives entered into for trading purposes was $7 thousand at december 31, 2001 and therefore not material. equity price exposure. we are also subject to equity price exposure from our debt issues that are convertible into our own common stock. these debt issues had an aggregate carrying value of $458 million and $566 million as of december 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. an instantaneous, ten percent decrease in our stock price on december 31, 2001 and 2000 would decrease the fair value to a third party holder of our convertible debt by approximately $1 million and $11 million, respectively. the exposure at december 31, 2001 has been substantially reduced due to the maturity and our payment of $427 million to redeem our 4% convertible subordinated notes due on february 1, 2002. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the use of and accounting for derivative instruments. 35quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk... 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency rates, certain commodity prices and certain equity prices. from time to time, we and certain of our subsidiaries use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent third parties that provide for payments based on a notional amount, with no multipliers or leverage. as of december 31, 2002, all of the derivatives were related to actual or anticipated exposures of our transactions, with the exception of certain derivatives related to the fiber commodity markets that were entered into for trading purposes. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by counterparties to derivatives. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties, all of whom we either consider credit worthy, or who have issued letters of credit to support their performance. see note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for discussion regarding terminated fiber agreements with enron north america corp. ("enron"). we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. this analysis is inherently limited because it represents a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from 40 our assumptions. the effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not covered by sensitivity analysis. fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings effect from the assumed market rate movements. interest rate exposure. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations, which are denominated in u.s. dollars. in addition, we use interest rate swaps to either lock-in or limit the variability in the interest rates to manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt obligations. an instantaneous, one percentage point decrease in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves would increase the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate swap positions at december 31, 2002 and 2001 by approximately $482 million and $394 million, respectively. this analysis does not reflect the effect that declining interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings, nor the favorable impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments for interest. since a significant portion of our debt is at fixed rates, changes in market interest rates would not significantly impact operating results until and unless our fixed rate debt would need to be refinanced at maturity. currency rate exposure. from time to time, we and certain of our subsidiaries have used foreign currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows on intercompany foreign-currency denominated debt. an instantaneous ten percent decrease in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2002 would have no material impact to the company. we had no foreign currency derivatives at december 31, 2001. commodities price exposure. we market recycled waste paper products such as onp and occ from our material recovery facilities. we enter into financial fiber swaps to mitigate the variability in cash flows from a portion of these sales. under these swap agreements, we pay a floating index price and receive a fixed price for a fixed period of time. we also enter into fiber swap agreements for trading purposes with the objective of generating profits from changes in market prices of waste paper and other paper products. we record changes in the fair value of these fiber swap agreements not designated as hedges immediately to earnings. all derivative transactions are subject to our risk management policy which governs the type of instruments that may be used and our risk exposure limits. an instantaneous ten percent increase in occ and onp prices at december 31, 2002 would decrease the fair value of our hedges by approximately $11.2 million. this analysis excludes the underlying physical commodity sales positions that are being hedged. an instantaneous ten percent increase in prices at december 31, 2002 on our derivatives entered into for trading purposes would have no material impact on us. at december 31, 2001, all, except two, of our fiber agreements were with enron. due to enron's financial situation, collectibility of the funds associated with these instruments was not probable at december 31, 2001 and therefore these instruments were estimated to have no fair value. the derivatives with enron were subsequently terminated in early 2002. the net fair value of the two derivatives with counterparties other than enron at december 31, 2001 was not material. see notes 2, 7 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the use of and accounting for derivative instruments. 41quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount, with no multipliers or leverage. as of december 31, 2003, all of the derivatives were related to actual or anticipated exposures of our transactions, with the exception of certain derivatives related to the fiber commodity markets that were entered into for trading purposes. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties, all of whom we either consider credit-worthy, or who have issued letters of credit to support their performance. we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. this analysis is inherently limited because it represents a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. the effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not covered by sensitivity analysis. fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings effect from the assumed market rate movements. interest rate exposure. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations, which are denominated in u.s. dollars. in addition, we use interest rate swaps to either lock in or limit the variability in the interest rates to manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt obligations. an instantaneous, one percentage point decrease in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves would increase the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate swap positions at both december 31, 2003 and 2002 by approximately $500 million. this analysis does not reflect the effect that declining interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings, nor the favorable impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments for interest. since a significant portion of our debt is at fixed rates, changes in market interest rates would not significantly impact operating results until and unless our fixed rate debt would need to be refinanced at maturity. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have approximately $752 million of restricted funds held in trust funds and escrow accounts included as a component of other long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheet. these funds are generally restricted for future capital expenditures and closure, post-closure and remedial activities at our disposal facilities and are therefore invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market accounts and u.s. government agency debt securities. because of the short-terms of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. 40 currency rate exposure. from time to time, we have used foreign currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows on intercompany foreign-currency denominated debt. there would be no material impact if there were an instantaneous 10% decrease in foreign exchange rates at either december 31, 2003 or december 31, 2002. commodities price exposure. we market recycled waste paper products such as onp and occ from our material recovery facilities. we enter into financial fiber swaps to mitigate the variability in cash flows from a portion of these sales. under these swap agreements, we pay a floating index price and receive a fixed price for a fixed period of time. we record changes in the fair value of these fiber swap agreements not designated as hedges immediately to earnings. all derivative transactions are subject to our risk management policy which governs the type of instruments that may be used and our risk exposure limits. an instantaneous 10% increase in occ and onp prices would decrease the fair value of our hedges by approximately $10 million on both december 31, 2003 and 2002. this analysis excludes the underlying physical commodity sales positions that are being hedged. see notes 2 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the use of and accounting for derivative instruments. 41quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount, with no multipliers or leverage. as of december 31, 2004, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures although certain transactions did not qualify for hedge accounting. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties, all of whom we either consider credit-worthy, or who have issued letters of credit to support their performance. we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. this analysis is inherently limited because it represents a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. the effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not covered by sensitivity analysis. fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings effect from the assumed market rate movements. interest rate exposure. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations, which are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. in addition, we use interest rate swaps to manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt obligations, which directly impacts variability in interest costs. 46 an instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate swap positions by approximately $490 million at december 31, 2004 and $440 million at december 31, 2003. this analysis does not reflect the effect that increasing interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings, nor the unfavorable impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments for interest. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have approximately $647 million of assets held in trust funds and escrow accounts included primarily as a component of other long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2004. these assets are generally restricted for future capital expenditures and closure, post-closure and remedial activities at our disposal facilities and are therefore invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market accounts and u.s. government agency debt securities. because of the short-terms of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. currency rate exposure. from time to time, we have used currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows on intercompany canadian-currency denominated debt. there would have been no material impact to our fair value position if there were an instantaneous 10% decrease in foreign exchange rates at december 31, 2003. at december 31, 2004 we have no foreign currency derivatives outstanding. commodities price exposure. we market recycled products such as waste paper, aluminum and glass from our material recovery facilities. we enter into financial fiber swaps and options to mitigate the variability in cash flows from a portion of these sales. under the swap agreements, we pay a floating index price and receive a fixed price for a fixed period of time. with regard to our option agreements, we have purchased price protection on certain wastepaper sales via synthetic floors (put options) and price protection on certain wastepaper purchases via synthetic ceilings (call options). additionally, we have entered into collars (combination of a put and call option) with financial institutions in which we receive the market price for our wastepaper and aluminum sales within a specified floor and ceiling. we record changes in the fair value of commodity derivatives not designated as hedges to earnings, as required. all derivative transactions are subject to our risk management policy, which governs the type of instruments that may be used. an instantaneous 10% increase in recyclable material prices would decrease the fair value of our commodity derivatives by approximately $10 million at december 31, 2003 and by approximately $20 million at december 31, 2004. this analysis excludes the underlying physical commodity positions that are being hedged. see notes 3 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the use of and accounting for derivative instruments. 47risk factors 13 risk factors. when we make statements containing projections about our accounting and finances, plans and objectives for the future, future economic performance or when we make statements containing any other projections or estimates about our assumptions relating to these types of statements, we are making forward-looking statements. these statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. we make these statements in an effort to keep stockholders and the public informed about our business and have based them on our current expectations about future events. you should view such statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance or events. all phases of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 13 table of contents outlined below are some of the risks that we face and that could affect our business and financial position for 2006 and beyond. however, they are not the only risks that we face. there may be additional risks that we do not presently know of or that we currently believe are immaterial which could also impair our business and financial position. the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. in north america, the industry consists of large national waste management companies, and local and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources. we compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. these counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, competitors may reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively bid contracts. when this happens, we may rollback prices or offer lower pricing to attract or retain our customers, resulting in a negative impact to our yield on base business. if we are unable to successfully manage our costs, our income from operations could be lower than expected. in recent years, we have implemented several profit improvement initiatives aimed at lowering our costs and enhancing our revenues, and continue to seek ways to reduce our selling, general and administrative and operating expenses. while we have generally been successful in reducing our selling, general and administrative costs, managing subcontractor costs and managing the effect of fuel price increases, these initiatives may not be sufficient. even as our revenues increase, if we are unable to control variable costs or increases to our fixed costs in the future, we will be unable to maintain or expand our margins. in recent periods, rising employee-related costs and expenses, including health care and other employee benefits such as unemployment insurance and workers compensation have negatively impacted our measures to reduce costs. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully implement our plans and strategies to improve margins and increase our income from operations we have announced several programs and strategies that we have implemented or planned to improve our margins and operating results. for example, we have implemented price increases and environmental fees and continue our fuel surcharge programs, all of which have increased our internal revenue growth. additionally, we have announced plans to divest of under-performing assets if we cannot improve their profitability. it is possible that we may lose volumes as a result of price increases or that we may not be able to increase prices or pass on increased costs to all of our customers due to contractual restraints. additionally, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of under-performing operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low margin businesses. if we are not able to fully implement our plans for any reason, many of which are out of our control, we may not see the expected improvements in our income from operations or our operating margins. the seasonal nature of our business and changes in general and local economic conditions cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in the summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year can actually increase our revenues in 14 table of contents the areas affected. however, for several reasons, including significant start-up costs, such revenue often generates comparatively lower margins. certain weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. the operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when electrical demand is generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to -energy facilities. our business is affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are also outside of our control, including interest rates and consumer confidence. we have $3.0 billion of debt as of december 31, 2005 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates because of the combined impact of our variable rate tax-exempt bonds and our interest rate swap agreements. therefore, any increase in interest rates can significantly increase our expenses. additionally, although our services are of an essential nature, a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. we also face risks related to other adverse external factors, such as the ability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect that significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may have on such ability. any of the factors described above could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. additionally, due to these and other factors, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety laws, and cannot guarantee that they will not be material. we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of drinking water sources or soil. under current law, we could even be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. also, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and under applicable law we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, and may in the future, become involved in a variety of legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. the waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and any such regulations, or new regulations, could restrict our operations or increase our costs of operations or impose additional capital expenditures. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level in the united states and canada have a substantial impact on our business. a large number of complex laws, rules, orders and 15 table of contents interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. among other things, they may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer or processing facilities or expanding existing facilities; limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of -state waste or certain categories of waste; or mandates regarding the disposal of solid waste regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. the costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. the permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. significant increases in fuel prices for any extended periods of time will increase our operating expenses and may increase our tax expense. the price and supply of fuel are unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by opec and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. in the past two years, the year-over-year changes in the average quarterly fuel prices have ranged from an increase of 41% to a decrease of 2%. we need fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and equipment used in our landfill operations, and price escalations or reductions in the supply will likely increase our operating expenses and have a negative impact on income from operations and cash flows. additionally, as fuel prices increase, many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers contracts prohibit any pass through of the increased costs. we may initiate other programs or means to guard against the rising costs of fuel, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so or that such programs will be successful. additionally, our current effective tax rate is estimated to be significantly lower than statutory tax rates due in part to section 29 tax credits we realize from our landfill gas sales and investments in coal-based synthetic fuel partnerships. the ability to earn section 29 tax credits is tied to an average benchmark oil price determined by the internal revenue service, and the credits are phased out as the benchmark average price increases. higher fuel prices or continued high fuel prices will phase out our credits and increase our effective tax rate, which will result in higher tax expense. we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance required to be maintained for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide, and therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily required levels. we face the risk of incurring liabilities for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby allowing us to manage our self-insurance exposure 16 table of contents associated with claims. to the extent our insurers were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to environmental closure and post-closure liabilities, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, or fund trust and escrow accounts. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. we do not anticipate any unmanageable difficulty in obtaining financial assurance instruments in the future. however, we are aware of recent increases in the cost of surety bonds and in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. these types of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, which could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. the possibility of disposal site developments, expansion projects or pending acquisitions not being completed or certain other events could result in a material charge against our earnings. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, a pending acquisition is not completed, a development or expansion project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such facility, acquisition or project. we reduce the charge against earnings by any portion of the capitalized expenditures and advances that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. in future periods, we may be required to incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or due to other events that cause impairments. depending on the magnitude, any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our revenues will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and glass, all of which are subject to significant price fluctuations. the majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard ( occ ), and old newsprint ( onp ). we enter into commodity price derivatives in an effort to mitigate some of the variability in cash flows from the sales of recyclable materials at floating prices. in the past three years, the year-over-year changes in the quarterly average market prices for occ ranged from a decrease of as much as 37% to an increase of as much as 36%. the same comparisons for onp have ranged from a decrease of as much as 17% to an increase of as much as 34%. these fluctuations can affect future operating income and cash flows. additionally, our recycling operations offer rebates to suppliers, based on the market prices of commodities we purchase. therefore, even if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase. additionally, there may be significant price fluctuations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery, waste-to -energy and independent power production plant operations. the marketing and sales of energy related products by our landfill gas and waste-to -energy operations are generally pursuant to long-term sales agreements. therefore, market fluctuations do not have a significant effect on these operations in the short-term. however, revenues from our independent power production plants can be affected by price fluctuations. in the past two years, the year-over-year changes in the average quarterly electricity prices have ranged from increases of as much as 12% to decreases of as much as 4%. 17 table of contents the development and acceptance of alternatives to landfill disposal and waste-to -energy facilities could reduce our ability to operate at full capacity. our customers are increasingly using alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting. in addition, some state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard wastes, at landfills or waste-to -energy facilities. although such mandates are a useful tool to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to landfills and waste-to -energy facilities in certain areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills and waste-to -energy facilities at full capacity, as well as the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal and waste-to -energy services. our recycling operations benefit from these mandates, but those operations generally generate much lower margins than our disposal operations. efforts by labor unions to organize our employees could divert management attention and increase our operating expenses. labor unions constantly make attempts to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees have already chosen to be represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with some of the groups. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages, including strikes, could ensue. depending on the type and duration of any labor disruptions, our operating expenses could increase significantly, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are currently involved in civil litigation and governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. the timing of the final resolutions to these matters is uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with either the operation of our current information technology systems or the development and deployment of new information technology systems that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. we have purchased a new revenue management system and plan to begin piloting the system in the second half of 2006. we may encounter problems in the development or deployment of this system that could result in significant errors in, or disruption of, our billing processes. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable law and regulations. we may experience adverse impacts on our results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results in future periods. unforeseen circumstances could result in a need for additional capital. we currently expect to meet our anticipated cash needs for capital expenditures, acquisitions and other cash expenditures with our cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, additional financings. however, materially adverse events could reduce our cash flows from operations. our board of directors approved a capital allocation program that provides for up to $1.2 billion in aggregate dividend payments and 18 table of contents share repurchases each year during 2005, 2006 and 2007 and recently announced that it expects future quarterly dividend payments to be $0.22 per share. if our cash flows from operations were negatively affected, we could be forced to reduce capital expenditures, acquisition activity, share repurchase activity or dividend declarations. in these circumstances we instead may elect to incur more indebtedness. if we made such an election, there can be no assurances that we would be able to obtain additional financings on acceptable terms. in these circumstances, we would likely use our revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs. our credit facility requires us to comply with certain financial covenants. in the event our interest expense is more than expected due to higher interest rates or our ratio of debt to earnings (as determined pursuant to the terms of the credit facility) is more than expected, we may not be in compliance with the covenants. this would result in a default under our credit facility. if we were unable to obtain waivers or amendments to the credit facility, the lenders could choose to declare all outstanding borrowings immediately due and payable, which we may not be able to pay in full. additionally, any such default could cause a default under all of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount, with no multipliers or leverage. as of december 31, 2005, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures although certain transactions did not qualify for hedge accounting. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties, all of whom we either consider credit-worthy, or who have issued letters of credit to support their performance. we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. these analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. the effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not covered by the sensitivity analyses. fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings effect from the assumed market rate movements. interest rate exposure. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations, which are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. in addition, we use interest rate swaps to manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt obligations, which directly impacts variability in interest costs. an instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate swap positions by approximately $480 million at december 31, 2005 and $490 million at december 31, 2004. this analysis does not reflect the effect that increasing interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings, nor the unfavorable impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments for interest. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have $460 million and $647 million of assets held in trust funds and escrow accounts included primarily as a component of long-term other assets in our consolidated balance sheets at december 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. these assets are generally restricted for future capital expenditures and closure, post-closure and remedial activities at our disposal 52 table of contents facilities and are, therefore, invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market accounts and u.s. government agency debt securities. because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. currency rate exposure. from time to time, we have used currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. at december 31, 2005 and 2004 we had no foreign currency derivatives outstanding. commodities price exposure. we market recycled products such as wastepaper, aluminum and glass from our material recovery facilities. we enter into financial fiber swaps and options to mitigate the variability in cash flows from a portion of these sales. under the swap agreements, we pay a floating index price and receive a fixed price for a fixed period of time. with regard to our option agreements, we have purchased price protection on certain wastepaper sales via synthetic floors (put options) and price protection on certain wastepaper purchases via synthetic ceilings (call options). additionally, we have entered into collars (combination of a put and call option) with financial institutions in which we receive the market price for our wastepaper and aluminum sales within a specified floor and ceiling. we record changes in the fair value of commodity derivatives not designated as hedges to earnings, as required. all derivative transactions are subject to our risk management policy, which governs the type of instruments that may be used. the fair value position of our commodity derivatives would decrease by approximately $10 million at december 31, 2005 and by approximately $20 million at december 31, 2004 if there were an instantaneous 10% increase across all commodities and applicable yield curves. see notes 3 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the use of and accounting for derivative instruments. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. in an effort to keep our shareholders and the public informed about our business, we may make forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. forward-looking statements generally include statements containing: projections about accounting and finances; plans and objectives for the future; projections or estimates about assumptions relating to our performance; or our opinions, views or beliefs about the effects of current or future events, circumstances or performance. you should view these statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. they are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. all phases of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2009 and beyond. general economic conditions can adversely affect our revenues and our operating margins. our business is affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. although our services are of an essential nature, a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. additionally, consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may limit the number or amount of services requested by customers and our ability to increase customers pricing. during weak economic conditions we may also be adversely impacted by customers inability to pay us in a timely manner, if at all, due to their financial difficulties, which could include bankruptcies. the availability of credit in the second half of 2008 was severely limited, which negatively affected business and consumer spending generally. if our customers do not have access to capital, we do not expect that our volumes will improve or that we will increase new business. we have $2.8 billion of debt as of december 31, 2008 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates because of the combined impact of our variable rate tax-exempt bonds and our interest rate swap agreements. therefore, any increase in interest rates can significantly increase our interest expenses. additionally, the unavailability of credit on favorable terms can adversely impact our growth, development and capital spending plans. the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. in north america, the industry consists of two national waste management companies, regional companies and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources. we compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. these counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, competitors may reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively bid contracts. when this happens, we may roll-back prices or offer lower pricing to attract or retain our customers, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business. 11 table of contents if we do not successfully manage our costs, or do not successfully implement our plans and strategies to improve margins, our income from operations could be lower than expected. in recent years, we have implemented several profit improvement initiatives aimed at lowering our costs and enhancing our revenues. we have implemented price increases and environmental fees, and we have continued our fuel surcharge program, all of which have increased our internal revenue growth. the loss of volumes as a result of price increases may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. we continue to seek to divest under-performing and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of under-performing and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low-margin businesses. additionally, in february 2009 we announced that we had taken steps to realign our field operations to combine several of our market areas in an effort to achieve greater economies of scale in our local and regional operations and our corporate organization to provide support functions more efficiently. if we are not able to fully or successfully implement our plans and strategies for any reason, many of which are out of our control, we may not see the expected improvements in our income from operations or our operating margins. the seasonal nature of our business causes our quarterly results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes generally experienced by our southern group, actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. however, for several reasons, including significant start-up costs, such revenue often generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. certain weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. the operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when waste flows are generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities. for these and other reasons, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety laws, and cannot guarantee that they will not be material. we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. under current law, we could even be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. also, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and under applicable law we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, and may in the future, become involved in a variety of legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and 12 table of contents local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. the waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level in the united states and canada have a substantial impact on our business. a large number of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. among other things, they may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer or processing facilities or expanding existing facilities; limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; or mandates regarding the disposal of solid waste, including requirements to recycle rather than landfill certain waste streams. regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. the costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. the permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. governmental authorities may enact climate change regulations that could increase our costs to operate. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely affect our collection and disposal operations. additionally, certain of the states in which we operate are contemplating air pollution control regulations that are more stringent than existing and proposed federal regulations. changing environmental regulations could require us to take any number of actions, including the purchase of emission allowances or installation of additional pollution control technology, and could make some operations less profitable, which could adversely affect our results of operations. significant shortages in fuel supply or increases in fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. the price and supply of fuel are unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, or opec, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. we have seen average quarterly fuel prices increase by as much as 56% on a year-over-year basis and decrease by as much as 9% on a year-over-year basis within the last two years. we need fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and equipment used in our landfill operations. supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. additionally, as fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses 13 table of contents increase and many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers contracts prohibit any pass through of the increased costs. we may initiate other programs or means to guard against the rising costs of fuel, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so or that such programs will be successful. regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, the increased operating costs will decrease our operating margins. we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide, and therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily required levels. we face the risk of incurring additional costs for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby allowing us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. the inability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect of significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may subject us to additional risks. to the extent our insurers were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to environmental closure and post-closure obligations, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, fund trust and escrow accounts or rely upon wmi financial guarantees. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. we do not anticipate any unmanageable difficulty in obtaining financial assurance instruments in the future, although general economic factors may adversely affect the cost of our current financial assurance instruments. additionally, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. it is possible that we could be forced to deposit cash to collateralize our obligations. other forms of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, and any requirements to use cash to support our obligations would negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. we may record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. events that could, in some circumstances, lead to an impairment include, but are not limited to, shutting down a facility or operation or abandoning a development project or the denial of an expansion permit. if we determine a development or expansion project is impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such facility or project reduced by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet, which is required to be assessed for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. the recent downturn in the recycling commodities market could potentially cause the carrying value of wmra assets to be lower than their fair value, resulting in an impairment to goodwill. we may be required to incur charges against earnings if we determine that events such as those described cause impairments. any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our revenues will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and glass, all of which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. the majority of the recyclables that we process for 14 table of contents sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard, known as occ, and old newsprint, or onp. the fluctuations in the market prices or demand for these commodities can affect our operating income and cash flows, as we experienced in 2008. in the fourth quarter of 2008, the monthly market prices for occ and onp fell by 79% and 72%, respectively, from their high points within the year. the decline in market prices for commodities resulted in a fourth quarter 2008 year-over-year decrease in revenue of almost $100 million. additionally, our recycling operations offer rebates to suppliers. therefore, even if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase and in some circumstances, the rebates may have floors even as market prices decrease, which could eliminate any expected profit margins. additionally, there may be significant price fluctuations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery, waste-to-energy and independent power production plant operations. the marketing and sales of energy related products by our landfill gas and waste-to-energy operations are generally pursuant to long-term sales agreements. therefore, market volatility does not cause our quarterly results to fluctuate significantly. however, as longer-term agreements expire and are up for renewal, or as market prices remain at lower levels for sustained periods, our revenues will be adversely affected. additionally, revenues from our independent power production plants can be affected by price fluctuations. in the past two years, the year-over-year changes in the average quarterly electricity prices have ranged from increases of as much as 26% to decreases of as much as 5%. the development and acceptance of alternatives to landfill disposal and waste-to-energy facilities could reduce our ability to operate at full capacity. our customers are increasingly using alternatives to landfill and waste-to-energy disposal, such as recycling and composting. in addition, some state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, at landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. although such mandates are a useful tool to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to landfills and waste-to-energy facilities in certain areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities at full capacity, as well as the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal and waste-to-energy services. our operating expenses could increase as a result of labor unions organizing or changes in regulations related to labor unions. labor unions constantly make attempts to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees have already chosen to be represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with some of the groups. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. considerable attention has been focused on proposed legislation that could amend the national labor relations act that would make it easier for unions to become recognized as the bargaining representative for employees. depending on the form of legislation, if any, that is ultimately enacted, it is reasonably possible that our operating expenses would increase as a result of the provisions of such legislation. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, or future legislation requires us to submit the terms of employment to binding arbitration in the event an agreement cannot be reached in a timely manner, our operating expenses could increase significantly as a result of work stoppages, including strikes, or unfavorable terms in agreements that result from arbitration. any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are involved in civil litigation in the ordinary course of our business and from time-to-time are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. 15 table of contents we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with either the operation of our current information technology systems or the development and deployment of new information technology systems that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. we encountered problems with the revenue management application that we had been piloting throughout 2007, resulting in the termination of the pilot, which has impeded our ability to realize improved operating margins as a result of a new system. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. there can be no assurances that our issues related to the licensed application will not ultimately result in an impairment charge, which could be material. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. we may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. unforeseen circumstances could result in a need for additional capital. we currently expect to meet our anticipated cash needs for capital expenditures, scheduled debt repayments, acquisitions and other cash expenditures with our cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary and available, additional financings. however, materially adverse events, including recent economic conditions, may reduce our cash flows from operations. our board of directors has approved a capital allocation program for 2009 that provides for up to $1.3 billion in aggregate dividend payments, share repurchases, acquisitions and debt reductions. in december 2008, we announced that we expect future quarterly dividend payments, when declared by the board of directors, to be $0.29 per share. if the impact on our cash flows from operations is significant, we may need to reduce capital expenditures, acquisition activity or dividend declarations unless we are able to incur indebtedness to either pay for these activities or refinance our scheduled debt maturities. in light of the recent state of the credit markets, there can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain additional financings on acceptable terms. in these circumstances, we would likely use our revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. as of december 31, 2008, we had $297 million of capacity under our revolving credit facility. in the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount, with no multipliers or leverage. as of december 31, 2008, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures although certain transactions did not qualify for hedge accounting. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties, all of whom we either consider credit-worthy, or who have issued letters of credit to support their performance. we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. these analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. the effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not covered by the sensitivity analyses. fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings effect from the assumed market rate movements. interest rate exposure. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations, which are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. in addition, we use interest rate swaps to manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt obligations, which directly impacts variability in interest costs. as of december 31, 2008, 33% of our total debt is at variable interest rates, compared with 34% at december 31, 2007. an instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate swap positions by approximately $595 million at december 31, 2008 and $445 million at december 31, 2007. as disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, there have not been any material changes in the amount or type of debt or derivatives outstanding since december 31, 2007; nor has there been a material change in the extent of our exposure to variability in interest rates. accordingly, the significant increase when comparing the effect of the one percentage point increase at december 31, 2008 with december 31, 2007 can be attributed to a substantial decline in risk-free interest rates, which are used in the discounted cash flow analysis performed to support this disclosure. this analysis does not reflect the effect that increasing interest rates would have on items other than our outstanding debt and interest rate derivatives, nor the unfavorable impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments for interest. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have $381 million and $418 million of assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts primarily included within long-term other assets in our consolidated balance sheets at december 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. these assets are generally restricted for future capital expenditures and closure, post-closure and environmental remediation activities at our disposal facilities and are, therefore, invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market accounts and u.s. government agency debt securities. because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. currency rate exposure. from time to time, we have used currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. in addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the company. 53risk factors 12 risk factors. in an effort to keep our shareholders and the public informed about our business, we may make forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, 12 table of contents cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. forward-looking statements generally include statements containing: projections about accounting and finances; plans and objectives for the future; projections or estimates about assumptions relating to our performance; and our opinions, views or beliefs about current or future events, circumstances or performance. you should view these statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. they are based on the facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. all phases of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. outlined below are some of the risks that we face and that could affect our business and financial statement for 2007 and beyond. however, they are not the only risks that we face. there may be other risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial that could also impair our business or financial position. the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. in north america, the industry consists of large national waste management companies, and local and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources. we compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. these counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, competitors may reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively bid contracts. when this happens, we may rollback prices or offer lower pricing to attract or retain our customers, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business. if we do not successfully manage our costs, our income from operations could be lower than expected. in recent years, we have implemented several profit improvement initiatives aimed at lowering our costs and enhancing our revenues, and we continue to seek ways to reduce our selling, general and administrative and operating expenses. while generally we have been successful in managing our selling, general and administrative costs, subcontractor costs and the effect of fuel price increases, our initiatives may not be sufficient. even as our revenues increase, if we are unable to control variable costs or increases to our fixed costs in the future, we will be unable to maintain or expand our margins. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully implement our plans and strategies to improve margins and increase our income from operations. we have announced several programs and strategies that we have implemented or planned to improve our margins and operating results. for example, except when prohibited by contract, we have implemented price increases and environmental fees, and we continue our fuel surcharge programs, all of which have increased our internal revenue growth. the loss of volumes as a result of price increases may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. additionally, we have announced plans to divest under-performing and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of under-performing and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low- 13 table of contents margin businesses. if we are not able to fully implement our plans for any reason, many of which are out of our control, we may not see the expected improvements in our income from operations or our operating margins. the seasonal nature of our business and changes in general and local economic conditions cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in the warmer months of the year, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste in those months. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. additionally, the storm conditions during hurricane season, which is generally june through november, can increase our revenues in the areas affected. however, for several reasons, including significant start-up costs, storm-related revenue often generates comparatively lower margins. certain weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. the operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities in the slower winter months, when electrical demand is generally lower. our business is affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are also outside of our control, including interest rates and consumer confidence. we have $3.0 billion of debt as of december 31, 2006 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates because of the combined impact of our variable rate tax-exempt bonds and our interest rate swap agreements. therefore, any increase in interest rates can significantly increase our expenses. additionally, although our services are of an essential nature, a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. we also face risks related to other adverse external factors, such as the ability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect that significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may have on such ability. any of the factors described above could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. additionally, due to these and other factors, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety laws, and cannot guarantee that they will not be material. we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. under current law, we could even be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. also, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and under applicable law we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, and may in the future, become involved in a variety of legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. 14 table of contents the waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations, may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level in the united states and canada have a substantial impact on our business. a large number of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. among other things, they may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer or processing facilities or expanding existing facilities; limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; or mandates regarding the disposal of solid waste regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. the costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. the permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. significant shortages in fuel supply or increases in fuel prices will increase our operating expenses and price increases may also increase our tax expense. the price and supply of fuel are unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by opec and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. in the past two years, the year-over-year changes in the average quarterly fuel prices have ranged from an increase of 40% to a decrease of 5%. we need fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and equipment used in our landfill operations. supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. additionally, as fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses increase and many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers contracts prohibit any pass through of the increased costs. we may initiate other programs or means to guard against the rising costs of fuel, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so or that such programs will be successful. regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, the increased operating costs will decrease our operating margins. additionally, our effective tax rate through 2007 is expected to be significantly lower than statutory tax rates due in part to section 45k (formerly section 29) tax credits we realize from our landfill gas sales and investments in coal-based synthetic fuel partnerships. the ability to earn section 45k tax credits is tied to an average benchmark oil price determined by the internal revenue service, and the credits are phased out as the benchmark average price increases. higher crude oil prices will phase out our credits and increase our effective tax rate, which will result in higher tax expense. we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide, and 15 table of contents therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily required levels. we face the risk of incurring liabilities for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby allowing us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. to the extent our insurers were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to environmental closure and post-closure liabilities, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, or fund trust and escrow accounts. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. we do not anticipate any unmanageable difficulty in obtaining financial assurance instruments in the future. however, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. these types of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, which could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. the possibility of development and expansion projects or pending acquisitions not being completed or certain other events could result in a material charge against our earnings. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, a pending acquisition is not completed, a development or expansion project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such facility, acquisition or project. we reduce the charge against earnings by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. in future periods, we may be required to incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or due to other events that cause impairments. any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our revenues will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and glass, all of which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. the majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard ( occ ), and old newsprint ( onp ). we enter into commodity price derivatives in an effort to mitigate some of the variability in cash flows from the sales of recyclable materials at floating market prices. in the past three years, the year-over-year changes in the quarterly average market prices for occ ranged from a decrease of as much as 33% to an increase of as much as 36%. the same comparisons for onp have ranged from a decrease of as much as 15% to an increase of as much as 29%. these fluctuations can affect future operating income and cash flows. additionally, our recycling operations offer rebates to suppliers, based on the market prices of commodities we buy to process for resale. therefore, even if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase. additionally, there may be significant price fluctuations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery, waste-to-energy and independent power production plant operations. the marketing and sales of energy related products by our landfill gas and waste-to-energy operations are generally pursuant to long-term sales agreements. therefore, market fluctuations do not have a significant effect on these operations in the short-term. however, as those agreements expire and are up for renewal, changes in market prices may affect our revenues. additionally, revenues from our independent power production plants can be affected by price fluctuations. in the past two years, the year-over-year changes in the average quarterly electricity prices have increased as much as 12%. 16 table of contents the development and acceptance of alternatives to landfill disposal and waste-to-energy facilities could reduce our ability to operate at full capacity. our customers are increasingly using alternatives to landfill and waste-to-energy disposal, such as recycling and composting. in addition, some state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of wastes, such as yard wastes, at landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. although such mandates are a useful tool to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to landfills and waste-to-energy facilities in certain areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities at full capacity, as well as the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal and waste-to-energy services. efforts by labor unions to organize our employees could increase our operating expenses. labor unions constantly make attempts to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees have already chosen to be represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with some of the groups. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages, including strikes, could ensue. depending on the type and duration of any labor disruptions, our operating expenses could increase significantly, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are involved in civil litigation in the ordinary course of our business and from time-to-time are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with either the operation of our current information technology systems or the development and deployment of new information technology systems that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. we have purchased and developed a new revenue management system and are piloting the system in the first half of 2007, with additional implementation to occur in late 2007 and early 2008. we may encounter problems in the development or deployment of this system that could result in significant errors in, or disruption of, our billing processes. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable law and regulations. we may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. unforeseen circumstances could result in a need for additional capital. we currently expect to meet our anticipated cash needs for capital expenditures, acquisitions and other cash expenditures with our cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, additional financings. however, materially adverse events could reduce our cash flows from operations. our board of directors has approved a capital allocation program that provides for up to $1.2 billion in aggregate dividend payments and share repurchases during 2007 and recently announced that it expects future quarterly dividend payments, when declared by the board of directors, to be $0.24 per share. if our cash flows from operations were negatively affected, we could be forced to 17 table of contents reduce capital expenditures, acquisition activity, share repurchase activity or dividend declarations. in these circumstances we instead may elect to incur more indebtedness. if we made such an election, there can be no assurances that we would be able to obtain additional financings on acceptable terms. in these circumstances, we would likely use our revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs. in the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount, with no multipliers or leverage. as of december 31, 2006, all of our derivative transactions were related to 52 table of contents actual or anticipated economic exposures although certain transactions did not qualify for hedge accounting. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties, all of whom we either consider credit-worthy, or who have issued letters of credit to support their performance. we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. these analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. the effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not covered by the sensitivity analyses. fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings effect from the assumed market rate movements. interest rate exposure. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations, which are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. in addition, we use interest rate swaps to manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt obligations, which directly impacts variability in interest costs. an instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate swap positions by approximately $460 million at december 31, 2006 and $480 million at december 31, 2005. this analysis does not reflect the effect that increasing interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings, nor the unfavorable impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments for interest. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have $377 million and $460 million of assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts primarily included within long-term other assets in our consolidated balance sheets at december 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. these assets are generally restricted for future capital expenditures and closure, post-closure and environmental remediation activities at our disposal facilities and are, therefore, invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market accounts and u.s. government agency debt securities. because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. currency rate exposure. from time to time, we have used currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. in addition, a change in foreign currency rates would not significantly affect our fair value positions. commodities price exposure. we market recycled products such as wastepaper, aluminum and glass from our material recovery facilities. we have entered into commodity swaps and options to mitigate the variability in cash flows from a portion of these sales. under the swap agreements, we pay a floating index price and receive a fixed price for a fixed period of time. with regard to our option agreements, we have purchased price protection on certain wastepaper sales via synthetic floors (put options) and price protection on certain wastepaper purchases via synthetic ceilings (call options). additionally, we have entered into collars (combination of a put and call option) with financial institutions in which we receive the market price for our wastepaper and aluminum sales within a specified floor and ceiling. we record changes in the fair value of commodity derivatives not designated as hedges to earnings, as required. all derivative transactions are subject to our risk management policy, which governs the type of instruments that may be used. the fair value position of our commodity derivatives would decrease by approximately $5 million at december 31, 2006 and by approximately $10 million at december 31, 2005 if there were an instantaneous 10% increase across all commodities and applicable yield curves. see notes 3 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the use of and accounting for derivative instruments. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors. in an effort to keep our shareholders and the public informed about our business, we may make forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. forward-looking statements generally include statements containing: projections about accounting and finances; plans and objectives for the future; projections or estimates about assumptions relating to our performance; and our opinions, views or beliefs about the effects of current or future events, circumstances or performance. you should view these statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. they are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. all phases of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2008 and beyond. these are not the only risks that we face. there may be other risks that we do not presently know or that we currently believe are immaterial that could also impair our business and financial position. 12 table of contents the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. in north america, the industry consists of large national waste management companies, and local and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources. we compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. these counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, competitors may reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively bid contracts. when this happens, we may rollback prices or offer lower pricing to attract or retain our customers, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business. if we do not successfully manage our costs, our income from operations could be lower than expected. in recent years, we have implemented several profit improvement initiatives aimed at lowering our costs and enhancing our revenues, and we continue to seek ways to reduce our selling, general and administrative and operating expenses. while generally we have been successful in managing our costs, including subcontractor costs and the effect of fuel price increases, our initiatives may not be sufficient. even as our revenues increase, if we are unable to control variable costs or increases to our fixed costs in the future, we will be unable to maintain or expand our margins. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to successfully implement our plans and strategies to improve margins and increase our income from operations. we have announced several programs and strategies that we have implemented or planned to improve our margins and operating results. for example, except when prohibited by contract, we have implemented price increases and environmental fees, and we continue our fuel surcharge programs, all of which have increased our internal revenue growth. the loss of volumes as a result of price increases may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. additionally, we continue to seek to divest under-performing and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of under-performing and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low-margin businesses. if we are not able to fully implement our plans for any reason, many of which are out of our control, we may not see the expected improvements in our income from operations or our operating margins. the seasonal nature of our business and changes in general and local economic conditions cause our quarterly results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes experienced during 2004 and 2005, actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. however, for several reasons, including significant start-up costs, such revenue often generates comparatively lower margins. certain weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. the operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when waste flows are generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities. our business is affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are also outside of our control, including interest rates and consumer confidence. we have $2.9 billion of debt as of december 31, 2007 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates because of the combined impact of our variable rate tax-exempt bonds and our interest rate swap agreements. therefore, any increase in interest rates can significantly increase our expenses. additionally, although our services are of an essential nature, a weak economy generally results in decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. we also face risks related to other adverse 13 table of contents external factors, such as the ability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect that significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may have on such ability. any of the factors described above could materially adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. additionally, due to these and other factors, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. we cannot predict with certainty the extent of future costs under environmental, health and safety laws, and cannot guarantee that they will not be material. we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. under current law, we could even be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. also, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and under applicable law we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, and may in the future, become involved in a variety of legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. the waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation, and existing or future regulations may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level in the united states and canada have a substantial impact on our business. a large number of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. among other things, they may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer or processing facilities or expanding existing facilities; limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; or mandates regarding the disposal of solid waste regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. the costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and 14 table of contents land use. the permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. governmental authorities may enact climate change regulations that could increase our costs to operate. environmental advocacy groups and regulatory agencies in the united states have been focusing considerable attention on the emissions of greenhouse gases and their potential role in climate change. the adoption of laws and regulations to implement controls of greenhouse gases, including the imposition of fees or taxes, could adversely affect our collection and disposal operations. additionally, certain of the states in which we operate are contemplating air pollution control regulations that are more stringent than existing and proposed federal regulations. changing environmental regulations could require us to take any number of actions, including the purchase of emission allowances or installation of additional pollution control technology, and could make some operations less profitable, which could adversely affect our results of operations. significant shortages in fuel supply or increases in fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. the price and supply of fuel are unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, or opec, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. in the past two years, the year-over-year changes in the average quarterly fuel prices have ranged from an increase of 28% to a decrease of 5%. we need fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and equipment used in our landfill operations. supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. additionally, as fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses increase and many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers contracts prohibit any pass through of the increased costs. we may initiate other programs or means to guard against the rising costs of fuel, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to do so or that such programs will be successful. regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, the increased operating costs will decrease our operating margins. we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide, and therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily required levels. we face the risk of incurring liabilities for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby allowing us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. to the extent our insurers were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to environmental closure and post-closure liabilities, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, or fund trust and escrow accounts. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. we do not anticipate any unmanageable difficulty in obtaining financial assurance instruments in the future. however, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. these types of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, which could negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. the possibility of development and expansion projects or pending acquisitions not being completed or certain other events could result in a material charge against our earnings. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other 15 table of contents projects. if a facility or operation is permanently shut down or determined to be impaired, a pending acquisition is not completed, a development or expansion project is not completed or is determined to be impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such facility, acquisition or project. we reduce the charge against earnings by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. in future periods, we may be required to incur charges against earnings in accordance with this policy, or due to other events that cause impairments. any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our revenues will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and glass, all of which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. the majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard, known as occ, and old newsprint, or onp. in the past two years, the year-over-year changes in the quarterly average market prices for occ ranged from a decrease of as much as 34% to an increase of as much as 83%. the same comparisons for onp have ranged from a decrease of as much as 16% to an increase of as much as 47%. these fluctuations can affect future operating income and cash flows. additionally, our recycling operations offer rebates to suppliers, based on the market prices of commodities we buy to process for resale. therefore, even if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase. additionally, there may be significant price fluctuations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery, waste-to-energy and independent power production plant operations. the marketing and sales of energy related products by our landfill gas and waste-to-energy operations are generally pursuant to long-term sales agreements. therefore, market fluctuations do not have a significant effect on these operations in the short-term. however, as those agreements expire and are up for renewal, changes in market prices may affect our revenues. additionally, revenues from our independent power production plants can be affected by price fluctuations. in the past two years, the year-over-year changes in the average quarterly electricity prices have increased or decreased by as much as 5%. the development and acceptance of alternatives to landfill disposal and waste-to-energy facilities could reduce our ability to operate at full capacity. our customers are increasingly using alternatives to landfill and waste-to-energy disposal, such as recycling and composting. in addition, some state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, at landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. although such mandates are a useful tool to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to landfills and waste-to-energy facilities in certain areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities at full capacity, as well as the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal and waste-to-energy services. efforts by labor unions to organize our employees could increase our operating expenses. labor unions constantly make attempts to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees have already chosen to be represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with some of the groups. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages, including strikes, could ensue. depending on the type and duration of any labor disruptions, our operating expenses could increase significantly, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are involved in civil litigation in the ordinary course of our business and from time-to-time are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. the timing of the final resolutions to these types 16 table of contents of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with either the operation of our current information technology systems or the development and deployment of new information technology systems that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. we encountered problems with the new revenue management application that we had been piloting throughout 2007, resulting in the termination of the pilot while we determine how to proceed on an enterprise-wide basis. the termination of the pilot may lead to additional costs and expenses, which could be material. additionally, the delay in implementing a new, enterprise-wide revenue management system may negatively affect our ability to improve our operating margins. finally, there can be no assurances that our issues related to the licensed application will not ultimately result in an impairment charge, which could be material. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable law and regulations. we may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. unforeseen circumstances could result in a need for additional capital. we currently expect to meet our anticipated cash needs for capital expenditures, acquisitions and other cash expenditures with our cash flows from operations and, to the extent necessary, additional financings. however, materially adverse events could reduce our cash flows from operations. our board of directors has approved a capital allocation program that provides for up to $1.4 billion in aggregate dividend payments and share repurchases during 2008 and recently announced that it expects future quarterly dividend payments, when declared by the board of directors, to be $0.27 per share. if our cash flows from operations were negatively affected, we could be forced to reduce capital expenditures, acquisition activity, share repurchase activity or dividend declarations. in these circumstances we instead may elect to incur more indebtedness. if we made such an election, there can be no assurances that we would be able to obtain additional financings on acceptable terms. in these circumstances, we would likely use our revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs. in the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount, with no multipliers or leverage. as of december 31, 2007, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures although certain transactions did not qualify for hedge accounting. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties, all of whom we either consider credit-worthy, or who have issued letters of credit to support their performance. we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. these analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. the effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not covered by the sensitivity analyses. fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings effect from the assumed market rate movements. interest rate exposure. our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations, which are primarily denominated in u.s. dollars. in addition, we use interest rate swaps to manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt obligations, which directly impacts variability in interest costs. an instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate swap positions by approximately $445 million at december 31, 2007 and $460 million at december 31, 2006. this analysis does not reflect the effect that increasing interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings, nor the unfavorable impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments for interest. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have $418 million and $377 million of assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts primarily included within long-term other assets in our consolidated balance sheets at december 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. these assets are generally restricted for future capital expenditures and closure, post-closure and environmental remediation activities at our disposal facilities and are, therefore, invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market accounts and u.s. government agency debt securities. because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. currency rate exposure. from time to time, we have used currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. our foreign 48 table of contents currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. in addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the company. commodities price exposure. we market recycled products such as wastepaper, aluminum and glass from our material recovery facilities. we have entered into commodity swaps and options to mitigate the variability in cash flows from a portion of these sales. under the swap agreements, we pay a floating index price and receive a fixed price for a fixed period of time. with regard to our option agreements, we have purchased price protection on certain wastepaper sales via synthetic floors (put options) and price protection on certain wastepaper purchases via synthetic ceilings (call options). additionally, we have entered into collars (combination of a put and call option) with financial institutions in which we receive the market price for our wastepaper and aluminum sales within a specified floor and ceiling. we record changes in the fair value of commodity derivatives not designated as hedges to earnings, as required. the fair value position of our commodity derivatives is not material to our financial position at december 31, 2007 and 2006. 49risk factors 14 risk factors the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. in 2011, the epa published the non-hazardous secondary materials, or nhsm, rule, which provides the standards and procedures for identifying whether nhsm are solid waste under rcra when used as fuels or ingredients in combustion units. the epa also published new source performance standards and emission guidelines for commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units, and maximum achievable control technology standards for commercial and industrial boilers. the epa has published clarifications and is currently considering amendments to these rules. in addition, there is litigation surrounding the rules and there is proposed legislation seeking to delay implementation and revise the requirements. some of the potential regulatory outcomes could have a significant impact on some of our projects in which we are seeking to convert biomass or other secondary materials into products, fuels or energy, as well as some of our landfill gas to energy and biomass to energy projects. it is not possible to quantify the financial impact of these rulemakings, which are being reconsidered at this time. however, we do not believe the rules will have a material adverse impact on our business as a whole. there are also various state or provincial and local regulations that affect our operations. each state and province in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. states and provinces have also adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. in addition, our landfill and waste-to-energy operations are affected by the increasing preference for alternatives to landfill and waste-to-energy disposal. several state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard and food waste, at 13 table of contents landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also have been or are under consideration by the u.s. congress and the epa. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. while laws that overtly discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory have been upheld in court. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. in 1994, the united states supreme court ruled that a flow control ordinance that gave preference to a local facility that was privately owned was unconstitutional, but in 2007, the court ruled that an ordinance directing waste to a facility owned by the local government was constitutional. in addition, from time to time, the united states congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control or the adoption of legislation affecting interstate transportation of waste at the state level could adversely affect our operations. courts interpretation of flow control legislation or the supreme court decisions also could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. many states, provinces and local jurisdictions have enacted fitness laws that allow the agencies that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the applicant or permit holder compliance history. some states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further and consider the compliance history of the parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant or permit holder. these laws authorize the agencies to make determinations of an applicant or permit holder fitness to be awarded a contract to operate, and to deny or revoke a contract or permit because of unfitness, unless there is a showing that the applicant or permit holder has been rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies and procedures put in place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for disclosures relating to our current assessments of the impact of regulations on our current and future operations. item 1a. risk factors. in an effort to keep our stockholders and the public informed about our business, we may make forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. forward-looking statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, forecast, project, estimate, intend and words of similar nature and generally include statements containing: projections about accounting and finances; plans and objectives for the future; projections or estimates about assumptions relating to our performance; or our opinions, views or beliefs about the effects of current or future events, circumstances or performance. you should view these statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. they are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. all aspects of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2012 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the company. 14 table of contents the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. in north america, the industry consists primarily of two national waste management companies, regional companies and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources, including companies that specialize in certain discrete areas of waste management, operators of alternative disposal facilities and companies that seek to use parts of the waste stream as feedstock for renewable energy and other by products. we compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. these counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, competitors may reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively-bid contracts, including large national accounts and exclusive franchise arrangements with municipalities. when this happens, we may lose customers and be unable to execute our pricing strategy, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business. if we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected. our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. implementation of our strategy will require effective management of our operational, financial and human resources and will place significant demands on those resources. we have adopted a business strategy built on three key initiatives: know more about our customers and how to service them than anyone else; use conversion and processing technology to extract more value from the materials we manage; and continuously improve our operational efficiency. in the short-term, we intend to pursue these initiatives through efforts to: grow our markets by implementing customer-focused growth, through customer segmentation and through strategic acquisitions, while maintaining our pricing discipline and increasing the amount of recyclable materials we manage each year; grow our customer loyalty; grow into new markets by investing in greener technologies; and pursue initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure. there are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following: our strategy may result in a significant change to our business, and our employees, customers or investors may not embrace and support our strategy. we may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to manage our strategy effectively. customer segmentation is new to our business, and it could result in fragmentation of our efforts, rather than improved customer relationships. in efforts to enhance our revenues, we have implemented price increases and environmental fees, and we have continued our fuel surcharge program to offset fuel costs. the loss of volumes as a result of price increases may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. we may be unsuccessful in implementing improvements to operational efficiency and such efforts may not yield the intended result. our ability to make strategic acquisitions and invest in greener technologies depends on our ability to identify desirable acquisition or investment targets, negotiate advantageous transactions despite competition for such opportunities, fund such acquisitions on favorable terms, and realize the benefits we expect from those transactions. 15 table of contents acquisitions, investments and/or new service offerings may not increase our earnings in the timeframe anticipated, or at all, due to difficulties operating in new markets or providing new service offerings, failure to operate within budget, integration issues, or regulatory issues, among others. integration of acquisitions, investments and/or new services offerings could increase our exposure to the risk of inadvertent noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. execution of our strategy may cause us to incur substantial research and development costs and/or additional indebtedness, which may divert capital away from our traditional business operations. we continue to seek to divest underperforming and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of underperforming and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low-margin businesses. in addition to the risks set forth above, implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses and changes in industry trends. further, we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. if we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business plan successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. the waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation; existing or future regulations and/or enforcement actions may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level in the united states and canada have a substantial impact on our business, and compliance with such regulations is costly. a large number of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. in recent years, we have perceived an increase in both the amount of government regulation and the number of enforcement actions being brought by regulatory entities against operations, in the waste services industry. we expect this heightened governmental focus on regulation and enforcement to continue. among other things, governmental regulations and enforcement actions may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer or processing facilities or on expanding existing facilities; limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; or mandates regarding the disposal of solid waste, including requirements to recycle rather than landfill certain waste streams. regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. the costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. the permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we also have significant financial obligations relating to final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation at our existing landfills. we establish accruals for these estimated costs, but we could underestimate such accruals. environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, requiring our expenditures to materially exceed our current accruals. 16 table of contents various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control or the adoption of legislation affecting interstate transportation of waste at the state level could adversely affect our operations. courts interpretation of flow control legislation or the supreme court decisions also could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. our revenues will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and glass, all of which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. the majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard and old newsprint. the fluctuations in the market prices or demand for these commodities, particularly demand from chinese paper mills, can affect our operating income and cash flows negatively, as we experienced in 2009, or positively, as we experienced in 2010 and 2011. as we have increased the size of our recycling operations, we have also increased our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. the decline in market prices in 2009 for commodities resulted in a year-over-year decrease in revenue of $447 million compared with 2008. increases in the prices of recycling commodities resulted in year-over-year increases in revenue of $423 million and $216 million in 2010 and 2011, respectively. market prices for recyclable commodities have increased significantly from the near-historic lows experienced in late 2008 and early 2009. overall commodity prices have increased year-over-year approximately 57% and 18% in 2010 and 2011, respectively. despite the recent positive trend in commodity prices, these prices may fluctuate substantially and without notice in the future. additionally, our recycling operations offer rebates to suppliers. therefore, even if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase. in other circumstances, the rebates may be subject to a floor, such that as market prices decrease, any expected profit margins on materials subject to the rebate floor are eliminated. there are also significant price fluctuations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy-related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery, waste-to-energy and independent power production plant operations that can significantly impact our revenue from yield provided by such businesses. in most of the markets in which we operate, electricity prices correlate with natural gas prices. during the years ended december 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately 54%, 47% and 46%, respectively, of the electricity revenue at our waste-to-energy facilities was subject to current market rates. our waste-to-energy facilities exposure to market price volatility will continue to increase as additional long-term contracts expire. we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into renewal contracts on comparable or favorable terms, or at all. to mitigate a portion of the variability in our revenues and cash flows caused by fluctuations in the market prices for electricity, we use receive fixed, pay variable electricity swaps. these swaps are generally short-term in nature. additionally, revenues from our independent power production plants can be affected by price fluctuations. if we are unable to successfully negotiate long-term contracts, or if market prices are at lower levels for sustained periods, our revenues could be adversely affected. increasing customer preference for alternatives to landfill disposal and waste-to-energy facilities could reduce our ability to operate at full capacity and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. our customers are increasingly diverting waste to alternatives to landfill and waste-to-energy disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. in addition, several state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard and food waste, at landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. where such organic waste is not banned from the landfill or waste-to-energy facility, large customers such as grocery stores and restaurants are choosing to divert their organic waste from landfills. zero-waste goals (sending no waste to the landfill) have been set by many of north america largest companies. although such mandates and initiatives help to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to landfills and waste-to-energy facilities in certain areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities at full capacity, as well as affecting the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal 17 table of contents and waste-to-energy services. our landfills and our waste-to-energy facilities currently provide and have historically provided our highest operating margins. if we are not successful in expanding our service offerings and growing lines of businesses to service waste streams that do not go to landfills or waste-to-energy facilities and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, then our revenues and operating results will decline. additionally, despite the development of new service offerings and lines of business, it is reasonably possible that our revenues and our operating margins could be negatively affected due to disposal alternatives. developments in technology could trigger a fundamental change in the waste management industry, as waste streams are increasingly viewed as a resource, which may adversely impact volumes at our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities and our profitability. our company and others have recognized the value of the traditional waste stream as a potential resource. research and development activities are on-going to provide disposal alternatives that maximize the value of waste, including using waste as a source for renewable energy and other valuable by-products. we and many other companies are investing in these technologies. it is possible that such investments and technological advancements may reduce the cost of waste disposal or power production to a level below our costs and may reduce the demand for landfill space and waste-to-energy facilities. as a result, our revenues and operating margins could be adversely affected due to advancements in disposal alternatives. if we are not able to develop new service offerings and protect intellectual property, or if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology, our financial results may suffer. our existing and proposed service offerings to customers may require that we invest in, develop or license, and protect, new technologies. research and development of new technologies often requires significant spending that may divert capital investment away from our traditional business operations. we may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market. further, protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of intellectual property is difficult, and any inability to obtain or protect new technologies could impact our services to customers and development of new revenue sources. our company and others are increasingly focusing on new technologies that provide alternatives to traditional disposal and maximize the resource value of waste. if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology that provides a revolutionary change in traditional waste management, or if we have inferior intellectual property to our competitors, our financial results may suffer. our business depends on our reputation and the value of our brand. we believe we have developed a reputation for high-quality service, reliability and social and environmental responsibility, and we believe our brand symbolizes these attributes. the waste management brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, as well as contractual obligations that may result in significant liabilities. there is risk of incurring significant environmental liabilities in the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of waste materials. under applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. under current law, we could also be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. this risk is of 18 table of contents particular concern as we execute our growth strategy, partially though acquisitions, because we may be unsuccessful in identifying and assessing potential liabilities during our due diligence investigations. further, the counterparties in such transactions may be unable to perform their indemnification obligations owed to us. additionally, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and, under applicable law, we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, we are currently, and we may in the future, become involved in legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and local communities, citizen groups, landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. further, we often enter into contractual arrangements with landowners imposing obligations on us to meet certain regulatory or contractual conditions upon site closure or upon termination of the agreements. compliance with these arrangements is inherently subject to subjective determinations and may result in disputes, including litigation. costs to remediate or restore the condition of closed sites may be significant. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our revenues and our operating margins. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. a weak economy generally results in decreased consumer spending and decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to quickly adjust to match shifting volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may limit the number or amount of services requested by customers and our ability to implement our pricing strategy. economic conditions may also limit our ability to implement our pricing strategy. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index, and our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. some of our customers, including governmental entities, have suffered financial difficulties affecting their credit risk, which could negatively impact our operating results. we provide service to a number of governmental entities and municipalities, some of which have suffered significant financial difficulties due to the downturn in the u.s. economy and reduced tax revenue. some of these entities could be unable to pay amounts owed to us or renew contracts with us at previous or increased rates. many non-governmental customers have also suffered serious financial difficulties, including bankruptcy in some cases. purchasers of our recyclable commodities can be particularly vulnerable to financial difficulties in times of commodity price volatility. the inability of our customers to pay us in a timely manner or to pay increased rates, particularly large national accounts, could negatively affect our operating results. in addition, the financial difficulties of municipalities could result in a decline in investors demand for municipal bonds and a correlating increase in interest rates. as of december 31, 2011, we had $611 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to re-pricing on either a daily or a weekly basis through a remarketing process and $305 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to re-pricing within the next twelve months. if the weakness in the municipal debt market results in re-pricing of our tax-exempt bonds at significantly higher interest rates, we will incur increased interest expenses that may negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. 19 table of contents we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. our ability to meet our financial and operating objectives depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain the permits necessary to operate landfill sites. permits to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills and transfer stations, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities or expanding existing facilities. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant shortages in fuel supply or increases in fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. the price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, or opec, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. we have seen average quarterly fuel prices increase by as much as 33% on a year-over-year basis and decrease by as much as 47% on a year-over-year basis within the last three years. we need fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and our equipment used in our landfill operations. supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. additionally, as fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses increase and many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. additionally, we are currently party to a pending litigation that pertains to our fuel and environmental charge and generally alleges that such charges were not properly disclosed, were unfair, and were contrary to contract. see note 11 of the consolidated financial statements for more information. regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, the increased operating costs will decrease our operating margins. we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with the operation of our current information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, as well as the development and deployment of new information technology systems, that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. a cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. we use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers credit card information. further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its 20 table of contents information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. our operating expenses could increase as a result of labor unions organizing or changes in regulations related to labor unions. labor unions continually attempt to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees are currently represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with these unions. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, our operating expenses could increase significantly as a result of work stoppages, including strikes. any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could face significant liabilities for withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans. we have participated in and contributed to various multiemployer pension plans administered by employer and union trustees. in renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that participate in these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in various plans. when we withdraw from plans, we can incur withdrawal liabilities for those plans that have underfunded pension liabilities. various factors affect our liabilities for a plan underfunded status, including the numbers of retirees and active workers in the plan, the ongoing solvency of participating employers, the investment returns obtained on plan assets, and the ratio of our historical participation in such plan to all employers historical participation. we reflect any withdrawal liability as an operating expense in our statement of operations and as a liability on our balance sheet. we have previously withdrawn several employee bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans, and we recognized related expenses of $26 million in 2010 and $9 million in 2009. we are still negotiating and litigating final resolutions of our withdrawal liability for these previous withdrawals, which could be materially higher than the charges we have recognized. our business is subject to operational and safety risks, including the risk of personal injury to employees and others. provision of environmental and waste management services involves risks such as truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, and natural disasters, which could potentially result in releases of hazardous materials, injury or death of employees and others, or a need to shut down or reduce operation of our facilities while remedial actions are undertaken. these risks expose us to potential liability for pollution and other environmental damages, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, and property damage or destruction. while we seek to minimize our exposure to such risks through comprehensive training and compliance programs, as well as vehicle and equipment maintenance programs, if we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of any applicable insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. 21 table of contents we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide and, therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily-required levels. we face the risk of incurring additional costs for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of other insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby enabling us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. the inability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect of significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may subject us to additional risks. to the extent our insurers were unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims were more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to variable-rate tax-exempt debt, final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, fund trust and escrow accounts or rely upon wm financial guarantees. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. general economic factors may adversely affect the cost of our current financial assurance instruments and changes in regulations may impose stricter requirements on the types of financial assurance that will be accepted. additionally, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. it is possible that we could be forced to deposit cash to collateralize our obligations. other forms of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, and any requirements to use cash to support our obligations would negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. we may record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. events that could, in some circumstances, lead to an impairment include, but are not limited to, shutting down a facility or operation or abandoning a development project or the denial of an expansion permit. if we determine a development or expansion project is impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such facility or project reduced by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet, which is required to be assessed for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may be required to incur charges against earnings if we determine that events such as those described cause impairments. any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our capital requirements and our business strategy could increase our expenses or cause us to change our growth and development plans, or fail to maintain our desired credit profile. recent economic conditions have reduced our cash flows from operations and could do so in the future. if impacts on our cash flows from operations are significant, we may reduce or suspend capital expenditures, growth and acquisition activity, implementation of our business strategy, dividend declarations or share repurchases. we may choose to incur indebtedness to pay for these activities, and there can be no assurances that we would be able to incur indebtedness on terms we deem acceptable or that we would maintain our targeted balance of debt to equity. we also may need to incur indebtedness to refinance scheduled debt maturities, and it is possible that the cost of financing could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. further, our ability to execute our financial strategy and our ability to incur indebtedness depends on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt. the credit rating process is 22 table of contents contingent upon our credit profile, as well as a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if we were unable to maintain our investment grade credit ratings in the future, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected. additionally, we have $2.2 billion of debt as of december 31, 2011 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next twelve months because of the combined impact of our tax-exempt bonds, our interest rate swap agreements and borrowings outstanding under our canadian credit facility. therefore, increases in interest rates can increase our interest expenses which also would lower our net income and decrease our cash flow. we may use our five-year, $2.0 billion revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available. as of december 31, 2011, we had $150 million of borrowings and $1,012 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $838 million. in the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. efforts to curtail the emission of ghgs, to ameliorate the effect of climate change, continue to advance on the federal, regional, and state level. our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a ghg. in the 111th congress, the u.s. house of representatives passed a bill that would regulate ghgs comprehensively. while the centerpiece of that bill would be a ghg emission allowance cap-and-trade system, neither landfills nor qualifying waste-to-energy plants would be compelled to hold allowances for their ghg emissions. rather, they would be subject to certain further emission controls to be determined through administrative rule-making. should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. absent comprehensive federal legislation to control ghg emissions, the epa is moving ahead administratively under its existing clean air act authority. in 2010, the epa published a prevention of significant deterioration ( psd ) and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule ( psd tailoring rule ). the rule sets new thresholds for ghg emissions that define when clean air act permits are required under the psd and title v programs. the epa legal authority to tailor statutory thresholds in this rule has been challenged, and the epa has delayed regulation of certain emissions pending further regulatory analysis. we cannot predict the final requirements of stationary source rules that might apply to landfills and waste-to-energy facilities as a result of this rulemaking and, accordingly, further developments in this area could have a material effect on our results of operations or cash flows. the seasonal nature of our business and one-time special projects cause our results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes that most often impact our southern group, can actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. while weather-related and other one-time occurrences can boost revenues through additional work, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue sometimes generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. during 2010, our financial results included revenue generated as a result of clean-up efforts in connection with the oil spill along the gulf coast and the substantial flooding in tennessee; however, these special projects have a limited time span. certain weather conditions, including severe weather storms, may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. the operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when waste flows are generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities. 23 table of contents for these and other reasons, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. our stock price may be negatively impacted by interim variations in our results. we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and our reputation could be adversely affected, if our businesses, or third parties with whom we have a relationship, were to fail to comply with united states or foreign laws or regulations. some of our projects and new business may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically been prevalent. it is our policy to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate, and we monitor our local partners compliance with such laws as well. our reputation may be adversely affected if we were reported to be associated with corrupt practices or if we or our local partners failed to comply with such laws. such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. additionally, violations of such laws could subject us to significant fines and penalties. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are involved in civil litigation in the ordinary course of our business and from time-to-time are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. we may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported financial position or operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount. as of december 31, 2011, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties. interest rate exposure our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities, although our interest costs can also be significantly affected by our on-going financial assurance needs, which are discussed in the financial assurance and insurance obligations section of item 1. as of december 31, 2011, we had $9.7 billion of long-term debt when excluding the impacts of accounting for fair value adjustments attributable to interest rate derivatives, discounts and premiums. the effective interest rates of approximately $2.2 billion of our outstanding debt obligations are subject to change during 2012. the most significant components of our variable-rate debt obligations are (i) $1 billion of receive fixed, pay variable interest rate swaps associated with outstanding fixed-rate senior notes; (ii) $611 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to re-pricing on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process; (iii) $305 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to re-pricing within twelve months; (iv) $150 million of borrowings outstanding under our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility; and 64 table of contents (v) u.s.$137 million of outstanding advances under our canadian credit facility. we currently estimate that a 100 basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2012 interest expense by approximately $18 million. as of december 31, 2010, the effective interest rates of approximately $1.8 billion of our outstanding debt obligations were subject to change within twelve months. our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed-rate tax exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds twelve months. in addition, at december 31, 2011, we had forward-starting interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $375 million. the fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations and various interest rate derivative instruments can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change. we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive derivatives and related positions. these analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. an instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate derivative positions by approximately $805 million at december 31, 2011. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have significant cash and cash equivalent balances as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. these assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in u.s. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. commodity price exposure in the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including old corrugated cardboard, old newsprint and plastics; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets in which we operate. with the exception of electricity commodity derivatives, which are discussed below, we generally have not entered into derivatives to hedge the risks associated with changes in the market prices of these commodities during the three years ended december 31, 2011. alternatively, we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues also increase or decrease. during 2011, approximately 54% of the electricity revenue at our waste-to-energy facilities was subject to current market rates, and we currently expect that nearly 56% of our electricity revenues at our waste-to-energy facilities will be at market rates by the end of 2012. our exposure to variability associated with changes in market prices for electricity has increased over the last few years as long-term power purchase agreements have expired. the energy markets have changed significantly since the expiring contracts were executed and we have found that the current market structure does not support medium- and long-term electricity contracts. as we renegotiate our power-purchase agreements, we expect that a more substantial portion of our energy sales at our waste-to-energy facilities will be based on variable market rates. accordingly, in 2010 we implemented a more actively managed energy program, which includes a hedging strategy intended to decrease the exposure of our revenues to volatility due to market prices for electricity. refer to note 8 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our electricity commodity derivatives. currency rate exposure we have operations in canada and investments in china and the united kingdom. from time to time, we use currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. in addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the company. refer to note 8 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our foreign currency derivatives. the foreign currency exposure associated with our investments in china and the united kingdom has not been material. 65 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. we are striving to anticipate the future needs of our customers by investing in and developing ever-more-advanced recycling and reuse technologies. potential climate change and ghg regulation initiatives have influenced our business strategy to provide low-carbon services to our customers. if the u.s. were to impose a carbon tax or other form of ghg regulation increasing demand for low-carbon service offerings in the future, the services we are developing will be increasingly valuable. in 2011, the epa published the non-hazardous secondary materials, or nhsm, rule, which provides the standards and procedures for identifying whether nhsm are solid waste under rcra when used as fuels or ingredients in combustion units. the epa also published new source performance standards and emission guidelines for commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units, and maximum achievable control technology standards for commercial and industrial boilers. the epa has published clarifications and recently published amendments to these rules. in addition, there is litigation surrounding the rules. although the recently published amendments are generally favorable to our industry, some of the potential regulatory interpretations are still being reviewed and other regulatory 14 table of contents outcomes may be dependent on case-by-case administrative determinations. these could have a significant impact on some of our projects in which we are seeking to convert biomass or other secondary materials into products, fuels or energy. therefore, it is not possible to quantify the financial impact of these rulemakings or pending administrative determinations at the present time. however, we do not believe the rules or administrative determinations will have a material adverse impact on our business as a whole. there are also various state or provincial and local regulations that affect our operations. each state and province in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. states and provinces have also adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. in addition, our landfill and waste-to-energy operations are affected by the increasing preference for alternatives to landfill and waste-to-energy disposal. several state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard and food waste, at landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also have been or are under consideration by the u.s. congress and the epa. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. while laws that overtly discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory have been upheld in court. from time to time, the united states congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. in 1994, the united states supreme court ruled that a flow control ordinance that gave preference to a local facility that was privately owned was unconstitutional, but in 2007, the court ruled that an ordinance directing waste to a facility owned by the local government was constitutional. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control could adversely affect our operations. courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. many states, provinces and local jurisdictions have enacted fitness laws that allow the agencies that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the applicant or permit holder compliance history. some states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further and consider the compliance history of the parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant or permit holder. these laws authorize the agencies to make determinations of an applicant or permit holder fitness to be awarded a contract to operate, and to deny or revoke a contract or permit because of unfitness, unless there is a showing that the applicant or permit holder has been rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies and procedures put in place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for disclosures relating to our current assessments of the impact of regulations on our current and future operations. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. in an effort to keep our stockholders and the public informed about our business, we may make forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. forward-looking statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, forecast, project, estimate, intend and words of similar nature and generally include statements containing: projections about accounting and finances; plans and objectives for the future; projections or estimates about assumptions relating to our performance; or our opinions, views or beliefs about the effects of current or future events, circumstances or performance. you should view these statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. they are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. all aspects of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2013 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the company. the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. in north america, the industry consists primarily of two national waste management companies, regional companies and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources, including companies that specialize in certain discrete areas of waste management, operators of alternative disposal facilities and companies that seek to use parts of the waste stream as feedstock for renewable energy and other by-products. we compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. these counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, competitors may reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively-bid contracts, including large national accounts and exclusive franchise arrangements with municipalities. when this happens, we may lose customers and be unable to execute our pricing strategy, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business. if we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected. our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. implementation of our strategy will require effective management of our operational, financial and human resources and will place significant demands on those resources. we have adopted a business strategy built on three key initiatives: know more about our customers and how to service them than anyone else; use conversion and processing technology to extract more value from the materials we manage; and continuously improve our operational efficiency. in the short-term, we intend to pursue these initiatives through efforts to: grow our markets by implementing customer-focused growth, through customer segmentation and through strategic acquisitions, while maintaining our pricing discipline and increasing the amount of recyclable materials we manage each year; 16 table of contents grow our customer loyalty; grow into new markets by investing in greener technologies; and pursue initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, including our july 2012 restructuring designed to streamline management and staff support. there are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following: our strategy may result in a significant change to our business, and our employees, customers or investors may not embrace and support our strategy. we may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to manage our strategy effectively. customer segmentation is new to our business, and it could result in fragmentation of our efforts, rather than improved customer relationships. in efforts to enhance our revenues, we have implemented price increases and environmental fees, and we have continued our fuel surcharge program to offset fuel costs. the loss of volumes as a result of price increases may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. we may be unsuccessful in implementing improvements to operational efficiency and such efforts may not yield the intended result. our restructuring may not achieve the goals and cost savings intended, and changes in our organizational structure may make our business more fragmented and difficult to oversee and evaluate. our ability to make strategic acquisitions and invest in greener technologies depends on our ability to identify desirable acquisition or investment targets, negotiate advantageous transactions despite competition for such opportunities, fund such acquisitions on favorable terms, and realize the benefits we expect from those transactions. acquisitions, investments and/or new service offerings may not increase our earnings in the timeframe anticipated, or at all, due to difficulties operating in new markets or providing new service offerings, failure of emerging technologies to perform as expected, failure to operate within budget, integration issues, or regulatory issues, among others. integration of acquisitions, investments and/or new services offerings could increase our exposure to the risk of inadvertent noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. execution of our strategy may cause us to incur substantial research and development costs, make substantial investments in emerging technologies and/or incur additional indebtedness, which may divert capital away from our traditional business operations. we continue to seek to divest underperforming and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of underperforming and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low-margin businesses. in addition to the risks set forth above, implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses and changes in industry trends. further, we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. if we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business plan successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. 17 table of contents the waste industry is subject to extensive government regulation; existing or future regulations and/or enforcement actions may restrict our operations, increase our costs of operations or require us to make additional capital expenditures. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level in the united states and canada have a substantial impact on our business, and compliance with such regulations is costly. a large number of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. in recent years, we have perceived an increase in both the amount of government regulation and the number of enforcement actions being brought by regulatory entities against operations, in the waste services industry. we expect this heightened governmental focus on regulation and enforcement to continue. among other things, governmental regulations and enforcement actions may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer or processing facilities or on expanding existing facilities; limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; or mandates regarding the disposal of solid waste, including requirements to recycle rather than landfill certain waste streams. regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. the costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. the permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we also have significant financial obligations relating to final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation at our existing landfills. we establish accruals for these estimated costs, but we could underestimate such accruals. environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, requiring our expenditures to materially exceed our current accruals. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. from time to time, the united states congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control could adversely affect our operations. courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. our revenues will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and glass, all of which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. the majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard and old newsprint. the fluctuations in the market prices or demand for these commodities, particularly demand from chinese paper mills, can affect our operating income and cash flows negatively, as we have experienced in 2012, or positively, as we experienced in 2011 and 2010. as we have increased the size of our recycling operations, we have also increased our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. the decline in market prices in 2012 for commodities resulted in a year-over-year decrease in revenue of $428 million compared with 2011. increases in the prices of recycling commodities 18 table of contents resulted in year-over-year increases in revenue of $216 million and $423 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively. overall commodity prices increased year-over-year 18% and 57% in 2011 and 2010, respectively, and decreased year-over-year 25% in 2012. these prices may fluctuate substantially and without notice in the future. additionally, our recycling operations offer rebates to suppliers. therefore, even if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase. in other circumstances, the rebates may be subject to a floor, such that as market prices decrease, any expected profit margins on materials subject to the rebate floor are reduced or eliminated. there are also significant price fluctuations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy-related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery, waste-to-energy and independent power production plant operations that can significantly impact our revenue from yield provided by such businesses. in most of the markets in which we operate, electricity prices correlate with natural gas prices. during the years ended december 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, 56%, 54% and 47%, respectively, of the electricity revenue at our waste-to-energy facilities was subject to current market rates. our waste-to-energy facilities exposure to market price volatility will continue to increase as additional long-term contracts expire. we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into renewal contracts on comparable or favorable terms, or at all. to mitigate a portion of the variability in our revenues and cash flows caused by fluctuations in the market prices for electricity, we use receive fixed, pay variable electricity swaps. additionally, revenues from our independent power production plants can be affected by price fluctuations. if we are unable to successfully negotiate long-term contracts, or if market prices are at lower levels for sustained periods, our revenues could be adversely affected. increasing customer preference for alternatives to landfill disposal and waste-to-energy facilities could reduce our ability to operate at full capacity and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. our customers are increasingly diverting waste to alternatives to landfill and waste-to-energy disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. in addition, several state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard and food waste, at landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. where such organic waste is not banned from the landfill or waste-to-energy facility, large customers such as grocery stores and restaurants are choosing to divert their organic waste from landfills. zero-waste goals (sending no waste to the landfill) have been set by many of north america largest companies. although such mandates and initiatives help to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to landfills and waste-to-energy facilities in certain areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities at full capacity, as well as affecting the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal and waste-to-energy services. our landfills and our waste-to-energy facilities currently provide and have historically provided our highest operating margins. if we are not successful in expanding our service offerings and growing lines of businesses to service waste streams that do not go to landfills or waste-to-energy facilities and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, then our revenues and operating results will decline. additionally, despite the development of new service offerings and lines of business, it is reasonably possible that our revenues and our operating margins could be negatively affected due to disposal alternatives. developments in technology could trigger a fundamental change in the waste management industry, as waste streams are increasingly viewed as a resource, which may adversely impact volumes at our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities and our profitability. our company and others have recognized the value of the traditional waste stream as a potential resource. research and development activities are on-going to provide disposal alternatives that maximize the value of waste, including using waste as a source for renewable energy and other valuable by-products. we and many other companies are investing in these technologies. it is possible that such investments and technological advancements may reduce the cost of waste disposal or power production to a level below our costs and may reduce the demand for landfill space and waste-to-energy facilities. as a result, our revenues and operating margins could be adversely affected due to advancements in disposal alternatives. 19 table of contents if we are not able to develop new service offerings and protect intellectual property, or if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology, our financial results may suffer. our existing and proposed service offerings to customers may require that we invest in, develop or license, and protect, new technologies. research and development of new technologies and investment in emerging technologies often requires significant spending that may divert capital investment away from our traditional business operations. we may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services or emerging technologies in which we have invested, which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market. further, protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of intellectual property is difficult, and any inability to obtain or protect new technologies could impact our services to customers and development of new revenue sources. our company and others are increasingly focusing on new technologies that provide alternatives to traditional disposal and maximize the resource value of waste. if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology that provides a revolutionary change in traditional waste management, or if we have inferior intellectual property to our competitors, our financial results may suffer. our business depends on our reputation and the value of our brand. we believe we have developed a reputation for high-quality service, reliability and social and environmental responsibility, and we believe our brand symbolizes these attributes. the waste management brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, as well as contractual obligations that may result in significant liabilities. there is risk of incurring significant environmental liabilities in the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of waste materials. under applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. under current law, we could also be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. this risk is of particular concern as we execute our growth strategy, partially though acquisitions, because we may be unsuccessful in identifying and assessing potential liabilities during our due diligence investigations. further, the counterparties in such transactions may be unable to perform their indemnification obligations owed to us. additionally, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and, under applicable law, we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, we are currently, and we may in the future, become involved in legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and local communities, citizen groups, landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. 20 table of contents we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. further, we often enter into contractual arrangements with landowners imposing obligations on us to meet certain regulatory or contractual conditions upon site closure or upon termination of the agreements. compliance with these arrangements is inherently subject to subjective determinations and may result in disputes, including litigation. costs to remediate or restore the condition of closed sites may be significant. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our revenues and our operating margins. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. a weak economy generally results in decreased consumer spending and decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. a weak market for consumer goods can significantly decrease demand by paper mills for recycled corrugated cardboard used in packaging; such decrease in demand can negatively impact commodity prices and our operating income and cash flows. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to quickly adjust to match shifting volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may limit the number or amount of services requested by customers. economic conditions may also limit our ability to implement our pricing strategy. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index, and our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. some of our customers, including governmental entities, have suffered financial difficulties affecting their credit risk, which could negatively impact our operating results. we provide service to a number of governmental entities and municipalities, some of which have suffered significant financial difficulties due to the downturn in the u.s. economy and reduced tax revenue. some of these entities could be unable to pay amounts owed to us or renew contracts with us at previous or increased rates. many non-governmental customers have also suffered serious financial difficulties, including bankruptcy in some cases. purchasers of our recyclable commodities can be particularly vulnerable to financial difficulties in times of commodity price volatility. the inability of our customers to pay us in a timely manner or to pay increased rates, particularly large national accounts, could negatively affect our operating results. in addition, the financial difficulties of municipalities could result in a decline in investors demand for municipal bonds and a correlating increase in interest rates. as of december 31, 2012, we had $587 million of variable-rate tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or a weekly basis through a remarketing process and $475 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to repricing within the next twelve months. if the weakness in the municipal debt market results in repricing of our tax-exempt bonds at significantly higher interest rates, we will incur increased interest expenses that may negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. our ability to meet our financial and operating objectives depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain the permits necessary to operate landfill sites. permits to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills and transfer stations, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new 21 table of contents facilities or expanding existing facilities. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant shortages in fuel supply or increases in fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. the price and supply of fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries, or opec, and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. on average, diesel fuel prices increased 3% and 29% for 2012 and 2011, respectively. we need fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and our equipment used in our landfill operations. supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. additionally, as fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses increase and many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. additionally, we are currently party to pending litigation that pertains to our fuel and environmental charges included on our invoices and generally alleges that such charges were not properly disclosed, were unfair, and were contrary to customer service contracts. see note 11 of the consolidated financial statements for more information. regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, the increased operating costs will decrease our operating margins. we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with the operation of our current information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, as well as the development and deployment of new information technology systems, that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. a cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. we use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers credit card information. further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. our operating expenses could increase as a result of labor unions organizing or changes in regulations related to labor unions. labor unions continually attempt to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees are currently represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with these unions. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the 22 table of contents future, and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, our operating expenses could increase significantly as a result of work stoppages, including strikes. any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could face significant liabilities for withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans. we have participated in and contributed to various multiemployer pension plans administered by employer and union trustees. in renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that participate in these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in various plans. when we withdraw from plans, we can incur withdrawal liabilities for those plans that have underfunded pension liabilities. various factors affect our liabilities for a plan underfunded status, including the numbers of retirees and active workers in the plan, the ongoing solvency of participating employers, the investment returns obtained on plan assets, and the ratio of our historical participation in such plan to all employers historical participation; depending on such factors, future withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for a particular reporting period. we reflect any withdrawal liability as an operating expense in our statement of operations and as a liability on our balance sheet. we have previously withdrawn several employee bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans, and we recognized related expenses of $10 million in 2012 and $26 million in 2010. we are still negotiating and litigating final resolutions of our withdrawal liability for certain withdrawals, which could be higher than the charges we have recognized. our business is subject to operational and safety risks, including the risk of personal injury to employees and others. providing environmental and waste management services involves risks such as truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, and natural disasters, which could potentially result in releases of hazardous materials, injury or death of employees and others, or a need to shut down or reduce operation of our facilities while remedial actions are undertaken. these risks expose us to potential liability for pollution and other environmental damages, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, and property damage or destruction. while we seek to minimize our exposure to such risks through comprehensive training and compliance programs, as well as vehicle and equipment maintenance programs, if we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of any applicable insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide and, therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily-required levels. we face the risk of incurring additional costs for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of other insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby enabling us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. the inability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect of significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may subject us to additional risks. to the extent our insurers are unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims are more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to variable-rate tax-exempt debt, final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, fund trust and escrow accounts or rely upon wm financial guarantees. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. 23 table of contents general economic factors may adversely affect the cost of our current financial assurance instruments and changes in regulations may impose stricter requirements on the types of financial assurance that will be accepted. additionally, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. it is possible that we could be forced to deposit cash to collateralize our obligations. other forms of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, and any requirements to use cash to support our obligations would negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. we may record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. in accordance with gaap, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. events that could, in some circumstances, lead to an impairment include, but are not limited to, shutting down a facility or operation or abandoning a development project or the denial of an expansion permit. if we determine a development or expansion project is impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such facility or project reduced by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet, which is required to be assessed for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may be required to incur charges against earnings if we determine that events such as those described cause impairments. any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our capital requirements and our business strategy could increase our expenses, cause us to change our growth and development plans, or fail to maintain our desired credit profile. recent economic conditions have reduced our cash flows from operations and could do so in the future. if impacts on our cash flows from operations are significant, we may reduce or suspend capital expenditures, growth and acquisition activity, implementation of our business strategy, or dividend declarations, and we may delay reinstituting share repurchases from when we otherwise would. we may choose to incur indebtedness to pay for these activities, and there can be no assurances that we would be able to incur indebtedness on terms we deem acceptable or that we would maintain our targeted balance of debt to equity. we also may need to incur indebtedness to refinance scheduled debt maturities, and it is possible that the cost of financing could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. further, our ability to execute our financial strategy and our ability to incur indebtedness depends on our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon our credit profile, as well as a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if we were unable to maintain our investment grade credit ratings in the future, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected. additionally, we have $1.5 billion of debt as of december 31, 2012 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next twelve months because of the combined impact of our tax-exempt bonds, our interest rate swap agreements and borrowings outstanding under our canadian credit facility. if interest rates increase, our interest expense would also increase, lowering our net income and decreasing our cash flow. we may use our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available, until its maturity in may 2016. as of december 31, 2012, we had $400 million of borrowings and $933 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $667 million. in the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. 24 table of contents the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. our landfill operations emit methane, identified as ghg. efforts to curtail the emission of ghgs to ameliorate the effect of climate change could advance on the federal, regional or state level, and should comprehensive climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it to impose costs on our operations, the materiality of which we cannot predict. in 2010, the epa published a prevention of significant deterioration and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule, which expanded the epa federal air permitting authority to include the six ghgs. the rule sets new thresholds for ghg emissions that define when clean air act permits are required. the current requirements of these rules have not significantly impacted our operations or cash flows, due to the current tailored thresholds and exclusions of certain emissions from regulation. however, if certain changes to these regulations are enacted, such as the lowering of thresholds or inclusion of biogenic emissions, such amendments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. the seasonal nature of our business and one-time special projects cause our results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes that most often impact our operations in the southern and eastern u.s., can actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. while weather-related and other one-time occurrences can boost revenues through additional work for a limited time span, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue sometimes generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. certain weather conditions, including severe weather storms, may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. the operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when waste flows are generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities. for these and other reasons, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. our stock price may be negatively impacted by interim variations in our results. we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and our reputation could be adversely affected, if our businesses, or third parties with whom we have a relationship, were to fail to comply with united states or foreign laws or regulations. some of our projects and new business may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically been prevalent. it is our policy to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate, and we monitor our local partners compliance with such laws as well. our reputation may be adversely affected if we were reported to be associated with corrupt practices or if we or our local partners failed to comply with such laws. such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. additionally, violations of such laws could subject us to significant fines and penalties. the construction of new international waste-to-energy facilities is subject to many business risks and uncertainties that could cause such projects to fail to achieve the financial results anticipated. our wheelabrator business in investing in growing its waste-to-energy business in china and europe through projects to develop, construct and/or operate new facilities. development and construction of a waste-to-energy facility is a complex, capital intensive, long-term process subject to risks of delays, cost overruns and 25 table of contents financing difficulty. additionally, technology incorporated in such facilities may not perform as anticipated. any of these risks, among others, may cause such projects to fail to achieve the financial results anticipated, which could have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, the financing, development, construction and operation of projects outside the united states can entail significant political and financial risks, which vary by country, including: changes in law or regulations; changes in disposal and electricity pricing; changes in foreign tax laws and regulations; changes in united states federal, state and local laws, including tax laws, related to foreign operations; compliance with united states federal, state and local foreign corrupt practices laws; changes in government policies or personnel; changes in general economic conditions affecting each country, including conditions in financial markets; changes in labor relations in operations outside the united states; political, economic or military instability and civil unrest; and credit quality of entities that purchase our power. the legal and financial environment in foreign countries could also make it more difficult for us to enforce our rights under agreements. any or all of the risks identified above with respect to our international projects could adversely affect our revenue and cash generation. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are involved in civil litigation in the ordinary course of our business and from time-to-time are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. we may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported financial position or operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount. as of december 31, 2012, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties. 67 table of contents interest rate exposure our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities, although our interest costs can also be significantly affected by our on-going financial assurance needs, which are discussed in the financial assurance and insurance obligations section of item 1. as of december 31, 2012, we had $9.9 billion of long-term debt when excluding the impacts of accounting for fair value adjustments attributable to interest rate derivatives, discounts and premiums. the effective interest rates of approximately $1.5 billion of our outstanding debt obligations are subject to change during 2013. the most significant components of our variable-rate debt obligations are (i) $587 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process; (ii) $475 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to repricing within twelve months; (iii) $400 million of borrowings outstanding under our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility; and (iv) u.s.$75 million of outstanding advances under our canadian credit facility. we currently estimate that a 100 basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2013 interest expense by approximately $13 million. as of december 31, 2011, the effective interest rates of approximately $2.2 billion of our outstanding debt obligations were subject to change within twelve months. our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed-rate tax exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds twelve months. in addition, at december 31, 2012, we had forward-starting interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $175 million. the fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations and various interest rate derivative instruments can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change. we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive derivatives and related positions. these analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. an instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate derivative positions by approximately $800 million at december 31, 2012. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have significant cash and cash equivalent balances as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. these assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in u.s. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. commodity price exposure in the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including old corrugated cardboard, old newsprint and plastics; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets in which we operate. with the exception of electricity commodity derivatives, which are discussed below, we generally have not entered into derivatives to hedge the risks associated with changes in the market prices of these commodities during the three years ended december 31, 2012. alternatively, we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues also increase or decrease. during 2012, approximately 56% of the electricity revenue at our waste-to-energy facilities was subject to current market rates, and we currently expect that nearly 56% of our electricity revenues at our waste-to-energy facilities will be at market rates by the end of 2013. our exposure to variability associated with changes in market prices for electricity has increased over the last few years as long-term power purchase agreements have expired. the energy markets have changed significantly since the expiring contracts were executed and we have found that the current market structure does not support medium- and long-term electricity contracts. as we renegotiate our power-purchase agreements, we expect that a more substantial portion of our energy sales at our waste-to-energy facilities will be based on variable market rates. accordingly, in 2010, we implemented a more actively managed energy program, which includes a hedging strategy intended to decrease the exposure of our revenues to volatility due to market prices for electricity. refer to note 8 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our electricity commodity derivatives. 68 table of contents currency rate exposure we have operations in canada and investments in china and the united kingdom. from time to time, we use currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. in addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the company. refer to note 8 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our foreign currency derivatives. the foreign currency exposure associated with our investments in china and the united kingdom has not been material. 69 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. we are striving to anticipate the future needs of our customers by investing in and developing ever-more-advanced recycling and reuse technologies. potential climate change and ghg regulatory initiatives have influenced our business strategy to provide low-carbon services to our customers, and we increasingly view our ability to offer lower carbon services as a key component of our business growth. if the u.s. were to impose a carbon tax or other form of ghg regulation increasing demand for low-carbon service offerings in the future, the services we are developing will be increasingly valuable. in 2011, the epa published the non-hazardous secondary materials ( nhsm ) rule, which provides the standards and procedures for identifying whether nhsm are solid waste under rcra when used as fuels or ingredients in combustion units. the epa also published new source performance standards and emission guidelines for commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units, and maximum achievable control technology standards for commercial and industrial boilers. the epa published clarifications and amendments to these rules in 2013, and there is litigation surrounding the rules. although the recently published amendments are generally favorable to our industry, some of the potential regulatory interpretations are undergoing review and other regulatory outcomes may be dependent on case-by-case administrative determinations. these could have a significant impact on some of our projects in which we are seeking to convert biomass or other secondary materials into products, fuels or energy. therefore, it is not possible to quantify the financial impact of these rulemakings or pending administrative determinations at the present time. however, we believe the rules and administrative determinations will not have a material adverse impact on our business as a whole and are more likely to facilitate our efforts to reuse or recover energy value from secondary material streams. 14 table of contents index to financial statements state, provincial and local regulations there are also various state or provincial and local regulations that affect our operations. each state and province in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. states and provinces have also adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. our landfill and waste-to-energy operations are affected by the increasing preference for alternatives to landfill and waste-to-energy disposal. several state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard and food waste, at landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. legislative and regulatory measures to mandate or encourage waste reduction at the source and waste recycling also have been or are under consideration by the u.s. congress and the epa. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. while laws that overtly discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory have been upheld in court. from time to time, the united states congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. in 1994, the united states supreme court ruled that a flow control ordinance that gave preference to a local facility that was privately owned was unconstitutional, but in 2007, the court ruled that an ordinance directing waste to a facility owned by the local government was constitutional. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control, or courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation, could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. additionally, regulations establishing extended producer responsibility ( epr ) are being considered or implemented in many places around the world, including in canada and the u.s. epr regulations are designed to place either partial or total responsibility on producers to fund the post-use life cycle of the products they create. along with the funding responsibility, producers may be required to take over management of local recycling programs by taking back their products from end users or managing the collection operations and recycling processing infrastructure. there is no federal law establishing epr in the u.s. or canada; however, state, provincial and local governments could, and in some cases have, taken steps to implement epr regulations. if wide-ranging epr regulations were adopted, they could have a fundamental impact on the waste, recycling and other streams we manage and how we operate our business, including contract terms and pricing. many states, provinces and local jurisdictions have enacted fitness laws that allow the agencies that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the applicant or permit holder compliance history. some states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further and consider the compliance history of the parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant or permit holder. these laws authorize the agencies to make determinations of an applicant or permit holder fitness to be awarded a contract to operate, and to deny or revoke a contract or permit because of unfitness, unless there is a showing that the applicant or permit holder has been rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies and procedures put in place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations. foreign export regulation enforcement or implementation of foreign regulations can affect our ability to export products. in 2013, the chinese government began to strictly enforce regulations that establish limits on moisture and non-conforming materials that may be contained in imported recycled paper and plastics. the higher quality expectations 15 table of contents index to financial statements resulting from initiatives such as operation green fence can drive up operating costs in the recycling industry, particularly for single stream mrfs. single stream mrfs process a wide range of materials and tend to receive a higher percentage of the material being scrutinized by the chinese government, which resulted in increased processing and residual disposal costs. despite these increased costs, we believe we are well positioned among our potential competitors to respond to and comply with such regulations. we are revising our service agreements to address these increased costs and are working with stakeholders to educate the general public on the need to recycle properly. hydraulic fracturing regulation our energy service line of business provides specialized environmental management and disposal services for oil and gas exploration and production operations. recently, there has been increased attention from the public, some states and the epa on the alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to impact drinking water supplies. increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing and new rules regarding the treatment and disposal of wastes associated with exploration and production operations could increase our costs to provide oilfield services and reduce our margins and revenue from such services. on the other hand, we believe the size, capital structure, regulatory sophistication and established reliability of our company provide us with an advantage in providing services that must comply with any complex regulatory regime that may govern providing oilfield waste services. emissions from natural gas fueling and infrastructure we currently operate the largest compressed natural gas ( cng ) fleet in the waste industry, and we plan to continue to transition a significant portion of our collection fleet from diesel fuel to cng. we have constructed and operate 58 natural gas fueling stations, 27 of which also serve the public or pre-approved third parties, in 24 states and two canadian provinces. concerns have been raised about the potential for emissions from the fueling stations and infrastructure that serve natural gas-fueled vehicles. we have partnered with the environmental organization environmental defense fund, as well as other heavy-duty equipment users and experts, on an emissions study to be made available to policy makers. we anticipate that this comprehensive study of emissions from our heavy-duty fleet may ultimately result in regulations that will affect equipment manufacturers and will define operating procedures across the industry. additional regulation of, or restrictions on, cng fueling infrastructure or reductions in associated tax incentives could increase our operating costs. we are not yet able to evaluate potential operating changes or costs associated with such regulations, but we do not anticipate that such regulations would have a material adverse impact on our business or our current plan to continue transitioning to cng vehicles. federal, state and local climate change initiatives in light of regulatory and business developments related to concerns about climate change, we have identified a strategic business opportunity to provide our public and private sector customers with sustainable solutions to reduce their ghg emissions. as part of our on-going marketing evaluations, we assess customer demand for and opportunities to develop waste services offering verifiable carbon reductions, such as waste reduction, increased recycling, and conversion of landfill gas and discarded materials into electricity and fuel. we use carbon life cycle tools in evaluating potential new services and in establishing the value proposition that makes us attractive as an environmental service provider. we are active in support of public policies that encourage development and use of lower carbon energy and waste services that lower users carbon footprints. we understand the importance of broad stakeholder engagement in these endeavors, and actively seek opportunities for public policy discussion on more sustainable materials management practices. in addition, we work with stakeholders at the federal and state level in support of legislation that encourages production and use of renewable, low-carbon fuels and electricity. we continue to assess the physical risks to company operations from the effects of severe weather events and use risk mitigation planning to increase our resiliency in the face of such events. we are investing in infrastructure to withstand more severe storm events, which may afford us a competitive advantage and reinforce our reputation as a reliable service provider through continued service in the aftermath of such events. 16 table of contents index to financial statements item 1a. risk factors. in an effort to keep our stockholders and the public informed about our business, we may make forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. forward-looking statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, forecast, project, estimate, intend and words of similar nature and generally include statements containing: projections about accounting and finances; plans and objectives for the future; projections or estimates about assumptions relating to our performance; or our opinions, views or beliefs about the effects of current or future events, circumstances or performance. you should view these statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. they are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. all aspects of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2014 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the company. the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. in north america, the industry consists primarily of two national waste management companies and regional and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources, including companies that specialize in certain discrete areas of waste management, operators of alternative disposal facilities and companies that seek to use parts of the waste stream as feedstock for renewable energy and other by-products. some of our regional competitors can be significant competitors in local markets and are pursuing aggressive regional growth strategies. we compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. these counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, some of our competitors may have lower financial expectations, allowing them to reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively-bid contracts, including large national accounts and exclusive franchise arrangements with municipalities. when this happens, we may lose customers and be unable to execute our pricing strategy, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business. if we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected. our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. implementation of our strategy will require effective management of our operational, financial and human resources and will place significant demands on those resources. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview for more information on our business strategy. 17 table of contents index to financial statements there are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following: our strategy may result in a significant change to our business, and our employees, customers or investors may not embrace and support our strategy. we may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to manage our strategy effectively. customer segmentation could result in fragmentation of our efforts, rather than improved customer relationships. in efforts to enhance our revenues, we have implemented price increases and environmental fees, and we have continued our fuel surcharge program to offset fuel costs. the loss of volumes as a result of price increases may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. we may be unsuccessful in implementing improvements to operational efficiency and such efforts may not yield the intended result. our restructuring may not achieve and/or maintain the goals and cost savings intended. on-going rationalization of our asset portfolio following our restructuring may result in impairments to our assets. see item 1a. risk factors we may record material charges against earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. our ability to make strategic acquisitions and to invest in technologies depends on our ability to identify desirable acquisition or investment targets, negotiate advantageous transactions despite competition for such opportunities, fund such acquisitions on favorable terms, and realize the benefits we expect from those transactions. acquisitions, investments and/or new service offerings may not increase our earnings in the timeframe anticipated, or at all, due to difficulties operating in new markets or providing new service offerings, failure of emerging technologies to perform as expected, failure to operate within budget, integration issues, or regulatory issues, among others. integration of acquisitions, investments and/or new services offerings could increase our exposure to the risk of inadvertent noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. execution of our strategy may cause us to incur substantial research and development costs, make substantial investments in emerging technologies and/or incur additional indebtedness, which may divert capital away from our traditional business operations. we continue to seek to divest underperforming and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of underperforming and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low-margin businesses. in addition to the risks set forth above, implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses and changes in industry trends. we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. if we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business strategy successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. compliance with existing or future regulations and/or enforcement of such regulations may restrict or change our operations, increase our operating costs or require us to make additional capital expenditures. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level in the united states and canada have a substantial impact on our business, and compliance with such regulations is costly. a large number of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. in recent years, we have perceived an increase in both the amount 18 table of contents index to financial statements of government regulation and the number of enforcement actions being brought by regulatory entities against operations in the waste services industry. we expect this heightened governmental focus on regulation and enforcement to continue. among other things, governmental regulations and enforcement actions may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer, recycling or processing facilities or on expanding existing facilities; limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; mandates regarding the management of solid waste, including requirements to recycle, divert or otherwise process certain waste, recycling and other streams; or limitations or restrictions on the recycling, processing or transformation of waste, recycling and other streams. regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. the costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. the permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we also have significant financial obligations relating to final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation at our existing landfills. we establish accruals for these estimated costs, but we could underestimate such accruals. environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, requiring our expenditures to materially exceed our current accruals. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. from time to time, the united states congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste certain types of flow control, or courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation, could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. additionally, regulations establishing extended producer responsibility, or epr, are being considered or implemented in many places around the world, including in canada and the u.s. epr regulations are designed to place either partial or total responsibility on producers to fund the post-use life cycle of the products they create. along with the funding responsibility, producers may be required to take over management of local recycling programs by taking back their products from end users or managing the collection operations and recycling processing infrastructure. there is no federal law establishing epr in the u.s. or canada; however, state, provincial and local governments could, and in some cases have, taken steps to implement epr regulations. if wide-ranging epr regulations were adopted, they could have a fundamental impact on the waste streams we manage and how we operate our business, including contract terms and pricing. a significant reduction in the waste, recycling and other streams we manage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 table of contents index to financial statements enforcement or implementation of foreign regulations can affect our ability to export products. in 2013, the chinese government began to strictly enforce regulations that establish limits on moisture and non-conforming materials that may be contained in imported recycled paper and plastics. the higher quality expectations resulting from initiatives such as operation green fence can drive up operating costs in the recycling industry, particularly for single stream mrfs. single stream mrfs process a wide range of materials and tend to receive a higher percentage of the material being scrutinized by the chinese government, which resulted in increased processing and residual disposal costs. if operation green fence or other similar regulations increase our operating costs in the future, and we are not able to recapture those costs from our customers, such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our revenues, earnings and cash flows will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and glass, all of which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. the majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard and old newsprint. the fluctuations in the market prices or demand for these commodities, particularly demand from chinese paper mills, can affect our operating income and cash flows negatively, as we have experienced in 2012 and 2013, or positively, as we experienced in 2011. as we have increased the size of our recycling operations, we have also increased our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. the decline in market prices in 2013 and 2012 for commodities resulted in year-over-year decreases in revenue of $79 million and $428 million, respectively. in 2011, increases in the prices of recycling commodities resulted in a year-over-year increase in revenue of $216 million. overall commodity prices decreased year-over-year 5% and 25% in 2013 and 2012, respectively, and prices increased year-over-year 18% in 2011. these prices may fluctuate substantially and without notice in the future. additionally, our recycling operations offer rebates to suppliers. therefore, even if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase. in other circumstances, the rebates may be subject to a floor, such that as market prices decrease, any expected profit margins on materials subject to the rebate floor are reduced or eliminated. there are also significant price fluctuations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy-related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery, waste-to-energy and independent power production plant operations that can significantly impact our revenue from yield provided by such businesses. in most of the markets in which we operate, electricity prices correlate with natural gas prices. during the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, 56%, 56% and 54%, respectively, of the electricity revenue at our waste-to-energy facilities was subject to current market rates. our waste-to-energy facilities exposure to market price volatility will continue to increase as additional long-term contracts expire. we may not be able to enter into renewal contracts on comparable or favorable terms, or at all. if we are unable to successfully negotiate long-term contracts, or if market prices are at lower levels for sustained periods, our revenues, earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected. increasing customer preference for alternatives to landfill disposal and waste-to-energy facilities could reduce our ability to operate at full capacity and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. our customers are increasingly diverting waste to alternatives to landfill and waste-to-energy disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. in addition, several state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard and food waste, at landfills or waste-to-energy facilities. where such organic waste is not banned from the landfill or waste-to-energy facility, some large customers such as grocery stores and restaurants are choosing to divert their organic waste from landfills. zero-waste goals (sending no waste to the landfill) have been set by many of north america largest companies. although such mandates and initiatives help to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to landfills and waste-to-energy facilities in certain areas, which may affect our ability to operate our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities at full capacity, as well as affecting the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal and waste-to-energy services. our landfills and our waste-to-energy facilities currently provide and have historically provided our highest income from operations margins. if we are not successful in expanding our service offerings 20 table of contents index to financial statements and growing lines of businesses to service waste streams that do not go to landfills or waste-to-energy facilities and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, then our revenues and operating results will decline. additionally, despite the development of new service offerings and lines of business, it is reasonably possible that our revenues and our income from operations margins could be negatively affected due to disposal alternatives. developments in technology could trigger a fundamental change in the waste management industry, as waste streams are increasingly viewed as a resource, which may adversely impact volumes at our landfills and waste-to-energy facilities and our profitability. our company and others have recognized the value of the traditional waste stream as a potential resource. research and development activities are on-going to provide disposal alternatives that maximize the value of waste, including using waste as a source for renewable energy and other valuable by-products. we and many other companies are investing in these technologies. it is possible that such investments and technological advancements may reduce the cost of waste disposal or power production to a level below our costs and may reduce the demand for landfill space and waste-to-energy facilities. as a result, our revenues and margins could be adversely affected due to advancements in disposal alternatives. if we are not able to develop new service offerings and protect intellectual property, or if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology, our financial results may suffer. our existing and proposed service offerings to customers may require that we invest in, develop or license, and protect, new technologies. research and development of new technologies and investment in emerging technologies often requires significant spending that may divert capital investment away from our traditional business operations. we may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services or emerging technologies in which we have invested, which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market. further, protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of intellectual property is difficult, and any inability to obtain or protect new technologies could impact our services to customers and development of new revenue sources. our company and others are increasingly focusing on new technologies that provide alternatives to traditional disposal and maximize the resource value of waste. if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology that provides a revolutionary change in traditional waste management, or if we have inferior intellectual property to our competitors, our financial results may suffer. our business depends on our reputation and the value of our brand. we believe we have developed a reputation for high-quality service, reliability and social and environmental responsibility, and we believe our brand symbolizes these attributes. the waste management brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, as well as contractual obligations that may result in significant liabilities. there is risk of incurring significant environmental liabilities in the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of waste materials. under applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. under current law, we could also be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. this risk is of particular concern as we execute our growth strategy, partially though acquisitions, because we may be 21 table of contents index to financial statements unsuccessful in identifying and assessing potential liabilities during our due diligence investigations. further, the counterparties in such transactions may be unable to perform their indemnification obligations owed to us. additionally, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and, under applicable law, we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, we are currently, and we may in the future, become involved in legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and local communities, citizen groups, landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. further, we often enter into agreements with landowners imposing obligations on us to meet certain regulatory or contractual conditions upon site closure or upon termination of the agreements. compliance with these agreements inherently involves subjective determinations and may result in disputes, including litigation. costs to remediate or restore the condition of closed sites may be significant. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our revenues and our income from operations margins. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. a weak economy generally results in decreased consumer spending and decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. a weak market for consumer goods can significantly decrease demand by paper mills for recycled corrugated cardboard used in packaging; such decrease in demand can negatively impact commodity prices and our operating income and cash flows. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to quickly adjust to match shifting volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may limit the number or amount of services requested by customers. economic conditions may also limit our ability to implement our pricing strategy. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index, and our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. some of our customers, including governmental entities, have suffered financial difficulties affecting their credit risk, which could negatively impact our operating results. we provide service to a number of governmental entities and municipalities, some of which have suffered significant financial difficulties due to the downturn in the economy, reduced tax revenue and/or high cost structures. some of these entities could be unable to pay amounts owed to us or renew contracts with us at previous or increased rates. many non-governmental customers have also suffered serious financial difficulties, including bankruptcy in some cases. purchasers of our recyclable commodities can be particularly vulnerable to financial difficulties in times of commodity price volatility. the inability of our customers to pay us in a timely manner or to pay increased rates, particularly large national accounts, could negatively affect our operating results. 22 table of contents index to financial statements in addition, the financial difficulties of municipalities could result in a decline in investors demand for municipal bonds and a correlating increase in interest rates. as of december 31, 2013, we had $577 million of variable-rate tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or a weekly basis through a remarketing process and $939 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to repricing within the next twelve months. if the weakness in the municipal debt market results in repricing of our tax-exempt bonds at significantly higher interest rates, we will incur increased interest expenses that may negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. our ability to meet our financial and operating objectives depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain the permits necessary to operate landfill sites. permits to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills and transfer stations, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities or expanding existing facilities. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant shortages in diesel fuel supply or increases in diesel fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. the price and supply of diesel fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. average diesel fuel prices decreased in 2013 but increased in both 2012 and 2011. we need diesel fuel to run a significant portion of our collection and transfer trucks and our equipment used in our landfill operations. supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. additionally, as fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses increase and many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. additionally, we are currently party to pending litigation that pertains to our fuel and environmental charges included on our invoices and generally alleges that such charges were not properly disclosed, were unfair, and were contrary to customer service contracts. see note 11 of the consolidated financial statements for more information. regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, increased operating costs due to higher diesel fuel prices will decrease our income from operations margins. we are expanding our compressed natural gas ( cng ) truck fleet, which makes us increasingly dependent on the availability of cng and cng fueling infrastructure and vulnerable to cng prices. we currently operate the largest cng fleet in the waste industry, and we plan to continue to transition a significant portion of our collection fleet from diesel fuel to cng. however, cng is not yet broadly available in north america; as a result, we have constructed and operate natural gas fueling stations, some of which also serve the public or pre-approved third parties. until the public and third parties in north america broadly adopt cng, which may not be on the timetable we anticipate, it will remain necessary for us to invest capital in cng fueling infrastructure in order to power our cng fleet. concerns have been raised about the potential for emissions from fueling infrastructure that serve natural gas-fueled vehicles. new regulation of, or restrictions on, cng fueling infrastructure or reductions in associated tax incentives could increase our operating costs. 23 table of contents index to financial statements additionally, fluctuations in the price and supply of cng could substantially increase our operating expenses, and a reduction in the existing cost differential between cng and diesel fuel could materially reduce the benefits we anticipate from our investment in cng vehicles. further, our fuel surcharge program is currently indexed to diesel fuel prices, and price fluctuations for cng may not effectively be recovered by this program. we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with the operation of our current information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, as well as the development and deployment of new information technology systems, that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. a cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. we use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers credit card information. further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. our operating expenses could increase as a result of labor unions organizing or changes in regulations related to labor unions. labor unions continually attempt to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees are currently represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with these unions. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, our operating expenses could increase significantly as a result of work stoppages, including strikes. any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could face significant liabilities for withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans. we are a participating employer in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer, defined benefit pension plans for employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. the risks of participating in these multiemployer plans are different from single-employer plans in that (i) assets contributed to the multiemployer plan by one employer may be used to provide benefits to employees or former employees of other participating employers; (ii) if a participating employer stops contributing to the plan, the unfunded obligations of the plan 24 table of contents index to financial statements may be required to be assumed by the remaining participating employers and (iii) if we choose to stop participating in any of our multiemployer plans, we may be required to pay those plans a withdrawal amount based on the underfunded status of the plan. in connection with our ongoing renegotiations of various collective bargaining agreements, we may discuss and negotiate for the complete or partial withdrawal from one or more of these pension plans. further, business events, such as the discontinuation or nonrenewal of a customer contract, the decertification of a union, or relocation, reduction or discontinuance of certain operations, which result in the decline of company contributions to a multiemployer pension plan, could trigger a partial or complete withdrawal. in the event of a withdrawal, we may incur expenses associated with our obligations for unfunded vested benefits at the time of the withdrawal. various factors affect our liabilities for a plan underfunded status, including the numbers of retirees and active workers in the plan, the ongoing solvency of participating employers, the investment returns obtained on plan assets, and the ratio of our historical participation in such plan to all employers historical participation; depending on such factors, future withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on results of operations for a particular reporting period. we reflect any withdrawal liability as an operating expense in our statement of operations and as a liability on our balance sheet. we have previously withdrawn several employee bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans, and we recognized related expenses of $5 million in 2013 and $10 million in 2012. we are still negotiating and litigating final resolutions of our withdrawal liability for certain withdrawals, which could be higher than the charges we have recognized. our business is subject to operational and safety risks, including the risk of personal injury to employees and others. providing environmental and waste management services, including constructing and operating landfills, involves risks such as truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, mass instability or waste slides, severe weather and natural disasters, which could potentially result in releases of hazardous materials and odors, injury or death of employees and others, or a need to shut down or reduce operation of our facilities while remedial actions are undertaken. additionally, we have built and are operating cng fueling stations to serve our growing fleet of cng trucks, some of which also serve the public or third parties. operation of fueling stations, landfill gas collection and control systems and waste to energy plants involves additional risks of fire and explosion. all of these risks expose us to potential liability for pollution and other environmental damages, personal injury, loss of life, business interruption, and property damage or destruction. while we seek to minimize our exposure to such risks through comprehensive training and compliance programs, as well as vehicle and equipment maintenance programs, if we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of any applicable insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. any such incidents could also tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide and, therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily-required levels. we face the risk of incurring additional costs for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of other insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby enabling us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. the inability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect of significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may subject us to additional risks. to the extent our insurers are unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims are more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. 25 table of contents index to financial statements in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to variable-rate tax-exempt debt, final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, fund trust and escrow accounts or rely upon wm financial guarantees. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. our financial position, which can be negatively affected by asset impairments, our credit profile and general economic factors, may adversely affect the cost of our current financial assurance instruments, and changes in regulations may impose stricter requirements on the types of financial assurance that will be accepted. additionally, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. it is possible that we could be forced to deposit cash to collateralize our obligations. other forms of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, and any requirements to use cash to support our obligations would negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. we may record material charges against our earnings due to any number of events that could cause impairments to our assets. in accordance with gaap, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. events that could, in some circumstances, lead to an impairment include, but are not limited to, shutting down a facility or operation or abandoning a development project or the denial of an expansion permit. additionally, declining waste volumes and development of, and customer preference for, alternatives to traditional waste disposal could warrant asset impairments. if we determine an asset or expansion project is impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such asset or project reduced by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet, which is required to be assessed for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may be required to incur charges against earnings if such impairment tests indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying value. any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our capital requirements and our business strategy could increase our expenses, cause us to change our growth and development plans, or fail to maintain our desired credit profile. if economic conditions or other risks and uncertainties cause a significant reduction in our cash flows from operations, we may reduce or suspend capital expenditures, growth and acquisition activity, implementation of our business strategy, dividend declarations or share repurchases. we may choose to incur indebtedness to pay for these activities, although our access to capital markets is not assured and we may not be able to incur indebtedness at a cost that is consistent with current borrowing rates. we also may need to incur indebtedness to refinance scheduled debt maturities, and it is possible that the cost of financing could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. further, our ability to execute our financial strategy and our ability to incur indebtedness is somewhat dependent upon our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon our credit profile, as well as a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including methodologies established and interpreted by third party rating agencies. if we were unable to maintain our investment grade credit ratings in the future, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected. additionally, we have $2.4 billion of debt as of december 31, 2013 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months because of the combined impact of our tax-exempt bonds and borrowings outstanding under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and canadian credit facility and term loan. if interest rates increase, our interest expense would also increase, lowering our net income and decreasing our cash flow. 26 table of contents index to financial statements we may use our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and our c$150 million canadian revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available, until maturity in july 2018 and november 2017, respectively. as of december 31, 2013, we had $420 million of outstanding borrowings and $872 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the $2.25 billion revolving credit facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $958 million, and we had $9 million of borrowings under the canadian revolving credit facility. in the event of a default under our credit facilities, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a ghg. there are a number of legislative and regulatory efforts at the state, regional and federal levels to curtail the emission of ghgs to ameliorate the effect of climate change. should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it could impose costs on our operations that might not be offset by the revenue increases associated with our lower-carbon service options, the materiality of which we cannot predict. in 2010, the epa published a prevention of significant deterioration and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule, which expanded the epa federal air permitting authority to include the six ghgs. the rule sets new thresholds for ghg emissions that define when clean air act permits are required. the current requirements of these rules have not significantly affected our operations or cash flows, due to the tailored thresholds and exclusions of certain emissions from regulation. on october 1, 2013, the supreme court granted petitions for certiorari to consider whether the epa regulation of ghg emissions from new motor vehicles triggered permitting requirements under the clean air act. if the supreme court decides that permitting requirements were triggered for ghgs, and if certain changes to these regulations are enacted, such as the lowering of thresholds or inclusion of biogenic emissions, such amendments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows that would not be mitigated by increased revenues associated with the services we offer customers to reduce their ghg footprints. changes in oil and gas prices and drilling activity, and changes in regulations applicable to oil and gas drilling and production, could adversely affect our energy service business. we provide specialized disposal services for oil and gas exploration and production operations. demand for these services may be adversely affected if drilling activity slows due to industry conditions beyond our control, including changes in oil and gas prices. additionally, changes in laws or government regulations regarding ghg emissions from oil and gas operations and/or hydraulic fracturing could increase our customers costs of doing business and reduce oil and gas exploration and production by customers. recently, there has been increased attention from the public, some states and the epa to the alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to impact drinking water supplies. increased regulation of oil and gas exploration and production and new rules regarding the treatment and disposal of wastes associated with exploration and production operations could increase our costs to provide oilfield services and reduce our margins and revenue from such services. 27 table of contents index to financial statements the seasonal nature of our business, severe weather events and one-time special projects cause our results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. the operating results of our first quarter often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when waste flows are generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste-to-energy facilities. service disruptions caused by severe storms, extended periods of inclement weather or climate extremes resulting from climate change can significantly affect the operating results of the affected areas. on the other hand, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes that most often impact our operations in the southern and eastern u.s., can actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. while weather-related and other one-time occurrences can boost revenues through additional work for a limited time span, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue sometimes generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. for these and other reasons, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. our stock price may be negatively impacted by interim variations in our results. we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and our reputation could be adversely affected, if our businesses, or third parties with whom we have a relationship, were to fail to comply with united states or foreign laws or regulations. some of our projects and new business may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically been prevalent. it is our policy to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate, and we monitor our local partners compliance with such laws as well. our reputation may be adversely affected if we were reported to be associated with corrupt practices or if we or our local partners failed to comply with such laws. such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. additionally, violations of such laws could subject us to significant fines and penalties. the construction of new international waste-to-energy facilities is subject to many business risks and uncertainties that could cause such projects to fail to achieve the financial results anticipated. our wheelabrator business has invested in growing its waste-to-energy business in china and europe through partnerships and joint ventures established to develop, construct and/or operate new facilities. development and construction of a waste-to-energy facility is a complex, capital intensive, long-term process subject to risks of delays, cost overruns, failure to receive governmental or regulatory approvals and financing difficulty. additionally, technology incorporated in such facilities may not perform as anticipated. any of these risks, among others, may cause such projects to fail to achieve the financial results anticipated, which could have a negative impact on our operating results. additionally, the financing, development, construction and operation of projects outside the united states can entail significant political and financial risks, which vary by country, including: changes in law or regulations; changes in disposal and electricity pricing; changes in foreign tax laws and regulations; 28 table of contents index to financial statements changes in united states federal, state and local laws, including tax laws, related to foreign operations; compliance with united states federal, state and local foreign corrupt practices laws; changes in government policies or personnel; changes in general economic conditions affecting each country, including conditions in financial markets; changes in labor relations in operations outside the united states; political, economic or military instability and civil unrest; and credit quality of entities that purchase our power. the legal and financial environment in foreign countries could also make it more difficult for us to enforce our rights under agreements. any or all of the risks identified above with respect to our international projects could adversely affect our revenue and cash generation. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are involved in civil litigation in the ordinary course of our business and from time-to-time are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. we may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported financial position or operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount. as of december 31, 2013, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties. interest rate exposure our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities, although our interest costs can also be significantly affected by our on-going financial assurance needs, which are discussed in the financial assurance and insurance obligations section of item 1. 71 table of contents index to financial statements as of december 31, 2013, we had $10.2 billion of long-term debt when excluding the impacts of accounting for fair value adjustments attributable to interest rate derivatives, discounts and premiums. the effective interest rates of approximately $2.4 billion of our outstanding debt obligations are subject to change during 2014. the most significant components of our variable-rate debt obligations are (i) $577 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process; (ii) $939 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to repricing within 12 months; (iii) $420 million of borrowings outstanding under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and (iv) $414 million of outstanding advances under our canadian credit facility. we currently estimate that a 100 basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2014 interest expense by approximately $19 million. as of december 31, 2012, the effective interest rates of approximately $1.5 billion of our outstanding debt obligations were subject to change within 12 months. our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed-rate tax exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds twelve months. in addition, at december 31, 2013, we had forward-starting interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $175 million. the fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations and various interest rate derivative instruments can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change. we have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive derivatives and related positions. these analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. an instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate derivative positions by approximately $600 million at december 31, 2013. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have significant cash and cash equivalent balances as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. these assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in u.s. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. commodity price exposure in the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including old corrugated cardboard, old newsprint and plastics; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets in which we operate. with the exception of electricity commodity derivatives, which are discussed below, we generally have not entered into derivatives to hedge the risks associated with changes in the market prices of these commodities during the three years ended december 31, 2013. alternatively, we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues also increase or decrease. during 2013, approximately 56% of the electricity revenue at our waste-to-energy facilities was subject to current market rates, and we currently expect that nearly 62% of our electricity revenues at our waste-to-energy facilities will be at market rates by the end of 2014. our exposure to variability associated with changes in market prices for electricity has increased over the last few years as long-term power purchase agreements have expired. the energy markets have changed significantly since the expiring contracts were executed, and we have found that the current market structure does not support medium- and long-term electricity contracts. as we renegotiate our power-purchase agreements, we expect that a more substantial portion of our energy sales at our waste-to-energy facilities will be based on variable market rates. accordingly, in recent years, we implemented a more actively managed energy program, which includes a hedging strategy intended to decrease the exposure of our revenues to volatility due to market prices for electricity. refer to notes 8 and 14 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our electricity commodity derivatives. 72 table of contents index to financial statements currency rate exposure we have operations in canada as well as a cost center in india and investments in china, the united kingdom and hong kong. from time to time, we use currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. in addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the company. refer to notes 8 and 14 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our foreign currency derivatives. the foreign currency exposure associated with these investments has not been material. 73 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors 15 risk factors the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. the epa clarified in its november 19, 2014 policy memorandum that states may rely on waste-derived biogenic feedstocks in their future proposed compliance plans required by the final clean power plan rules and the proposed federal plan, both published in october 2015, which may create new or expanded opportunities for renewable energy projects. according to the epa, the federal plan would fill any gaps pending implementation of state or tribal plans to achieve required emissions reductions, but would no longer apply when a state or tribal plan is approved. we are taking steps to anticipate the future needs of our customers which include investing in and developing ever-more-advanced recycling and reuse technologies. potential climate change and ghg regulatory initiatives have influenced our business strategy to provide low-carbon services to our customers, and we increasingly view our ability to offer lower carbon services as a key component of our business growth. if the u.s. were to impose a carbon tax or other form of ghg regulation increasing demand for low-carbon service offerings in the future, the services we are developing will be increasingly valuable. in 2011, the epa published the non-hazardous secondary materials ( nhsm ) rule, which provides the standards and procedures for identifying whether nhsm are solid waste under rcra when used as fuels or ingredients in combustion units. the epa also published new source performance standards and emission guidelines for commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units ( ciswi ) and maximum achievable control technology standards for commercial and industrial boilers ( boiler mact ). the epa published clarifications and amendments to the three rules in 2013, that are generally favorable to our industry. while there is ongoing litigation concerning the ciswi and boiler mact rules, the court of appeals for the d.c. circuit has upheld the nhsm rule and amendments that support some of our projects in which we are seeking to convert biomass or other secondary materials into products, fuels or energy. it is not possible to quantify the financial impact of all these rulemakings at the present time given pending litigation and administrative determinations. however, we believe the rules and administrative determinations will not have a material adverse impact on our business as a whole and are more likely to facilitate our efforts to reuse or recover energy value from secondary material streams. in december 2014, the epa issued a final rule regulating the disposal and beneficial use of coal combustion residuals ( ccr ). the regulations encourage beneficial use of ccr in encapsulated uses (e.g., used in cement or wallboard), and use according to established industry standards (e.g., application of sludge for agricultural enrichment). the epa also deemed disposal and beneficial use of ccr at permitted municipal solid waste landfills exempt from the new regulations because the rcra subtitle d standards applicable at municipal solid waste landfills provide at least equivalent protection. the new standards are consistent with our approach to handling ccr at our sites currently, and we believe the new standards will provide a potential growth opportunity for the company. states may impose standards more stringent than the federal program, and we will be monitoring state implementation to determine impact. state, provincial and local regulations there are also various state or provincial and local regulations that affect our operations. each state and province in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. states and provinces have also adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. 13 table of contents index to financial statements our landfill operations are affected by the increasing preference for alternatives to landfill disposal. many state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, food waste, and electronics at landfills. the number of state and local governments with recycling requirements and disposal bans continues to grow, while the logistics and economics of recycling the items remain challenging. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. while laws that overtly discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory have been upheld in court. from time to time, the united states congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. in 1994, the united states supreme court ruled that a flow control ordinance that gave preference to a local facility that was privately owned was unconstitutional, but in 2007, the court ruled that an ordinance directing waste to a facility owned by the local government was constitutional. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control, or courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation, could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. additionally, regulations establishing extended producer responsibility ( epr ) are being considered or implemented in many places around the world, including in canada and the u.s. epr regulations are designed to place either partial or total responsibility on producers to fund the post-use life cycle of the products they create. along with the funding responsibility, producers may be required to take over management of local recycling programs by taking back their products from end users or managing the collection operations and recycling processing infrastructure. there is no federal law establishing epr in the u.s. or canada; however, state, provincial and local governments could, and in some cases have, taken steps to implement epr regulations. if wide-ranging epr regulations were adopted, they could have a fundamental impact on the waste, recycling and other streams we manage and how we operate our business, including contract terms and pricing. many states, provinces and local jurisdictions have enacted fitness laws that allow the agencies that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the applicant or permit holder compliance history. some states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further and consider the compliance history of the parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant or permit holder. these laws authorize the agencies to make determinations of an applicant or permit holder fitness to be awarded a contract to operate, and to deny or revoke a contract or permit because of unfitness, unless there is a showing that the applicant or permit holder has been rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies and procedures put in place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations. foreign import regulation enforcement or implementation of foreign regulations can affect our ability to export products. in 2013, the chinese government began to strictly enforce regulations that establish limits on moisture and non-conforming materials that may be contained in imported recycled paper and plastics as well as restricting the import of certain other plastic recyclables. the higher quality expectations resulting from initiatives such as operation green fence have driven up operating costs in the recycling industry, particularly for single stream mrfs. single stream mrfs process a wide range of commingled materials and tend to receive a higher percentage of non-recyclables, which results in increased processing and residual disposal costs. despite these increased costs, we believe we are well positioned among our potential competitors to respond to and comply with such regulations. we are revising our service agreements to address these increased costs and are working with stakeholders to educate the general public on the need to recycle properly. 14 table of contents index to financial statements hydraulic fracturing regulation our energy services line of business provides specialized environmental management and disposal services for oil and gas exploration and production operations. there remains heightened attention from the public, some states and the epa on the alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to impact drinking water supplies. there is also heightened federal regulatory focus on emissions of methane that occur during drilling and transportation of natural gas with regulations promulgated in 2012 and 2015, as well as state attention to protective disposal of drilling residuals. increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing and new rules regarding the treatment and disposal of wastes associated with exploration and production operations could increase our costs to provide oilfield services and reduce our margins and revenue from such services. on the other hand, we believe the size, capital structure, regulatory sophistication and established reliability of our company provide us with an advantage in providing services that must comply with any complex regulatory regime that may govern providing oilfield waste services. emissions from natural gas fueling and infrastructure we operate a large fleet of natural gas vehicles, and we plan to continue to invest in these assets for our collection fleet. as of december 31, 2015, we were operating 84 natural gas fueling facilities, 28 of which also serve the public or pre-approved third parties, in 30 states and three canadian provinces. concerns have been raised about the potential for emissions from the fueling stations and infrastructure that serve natural gas-fueled vehicles. we have partnered with the environmental organization environmental defense fund, as well as other heavy-duty equipment users and experts, on an emissions study to be made available to policy makers. we anticipate that this comprehensive study of emissions from our heavy-duty fleet may ultimately help inform regulations that will affect equipment manufacturers and will define operating procedures across the industry. additional regulation of, or restrictions on, natural gas fueling infrastructure or reductions in associated tax incentives could increase our operating costs. we are not yet able to evaluate potential operating changes or costs associated with such regulations, but we do not anticipate that such regulations would have a material adverse impact on our business or our future investment in natural gas vehicles. federal, state and local climate change initiatives in light of regulatory and business developments related to concerns about climate change, we have identified a strategic business opportunity to provide our public and private sector customers with sustainable solutions to reduce their ghg emissions. as part of our on-going marketing evaluations, we assess customer demand for and opportunities to develop waste services offering verifiable carbon reductions, such as waste reduction, increased recycling, and conversion of landfill gas and discarded materials into electricity and fuel. we use carbon life cycle tools in evaluating potential new services and in establishing the value proposition that makes us attractive as an environmental service provider. we are active in support of public policies that encourage development and use of lower carbon energy and waste services that lower users carbon footprints. we understand the importance of broad stakeholder engagement in these endeavors, and actively seek opportunities for public policy discussion on more sustainable materials management practices. in addition, we work with stakeholders at the federal and state level in support of legislation that encourages production and use of renewable, low-carbon fuels and electricity. we continue to assess the physical risks to company operations from the effects of severe weather events and use risk mitigation planning to increase our resiliency in the face of such events. we are investing in infrastructure to withstand more severe storm events, which may afford us a competitive advantage and reinforce our reputation as a reliable service provider through continued service in the aftermath of such events. item 1a. risk factors. in an effort to keep our stockholders and the public informed about our business, we may make forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. forward-looking statements are often 15 table of contents index to financial statements identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, forecast, project, estimate, intend and words of a similar nature and generally include statements containing: projections about accounting and finances; plans and objectives for the future; projections or estimates about assumptions relating to our performance; or our opinions, views or beliefs about the effects of current or future events, circumstances or performance. you should view these statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. they are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. all aspects of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2016 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the company. the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. in north america, the industry consists primarily of two national waste management companies and regional and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources, including companies that specialize in certain discrete areas of waste management, operators of alternative disposal facilities and companies that seek to use parts of the waste stream as feedstock for renewable energy and other by-products. some of our regional competitors can be significant competitors in local markets and are pursuing aggressive regional growth strategies. we compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. these counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, some of our competitors may have lower financial expectations, allowing them to reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively-bid contracts, including large national accounts and exclusive franchise arrangements with municipalities. when this happens, we may lose customers and be unable to execute our pricing strategy, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business. if we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected. our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. implementation of our strategy will require effective management of our operational, financial and human resources and will place significant demands on those resources. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview for more information on our business strategy. there are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following: our employees, customers or investors may not embrace and support our strategy. 16 table of contents index to financial statements we may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to manage our strategy effectively. a key element of our strategy is yield management through focus on price leadership, which has presented challenges to keep existing business and win new business at reasonable returns. we have also continued our environmental fee and fuel surcharge programs to offset costs. the loss of volumes as a result of price increases and our unwillingness to pursue lower margin volumes may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. we may be unsuccessful in implementing improvements to operational efficiency and such efforts may not yield the intended result. we may not be able to maintain cost savings achieved through restructuring efforts. strategic decisions with respect to our asset portfolio may result in impairments to our assets. see item 1a. risk factors we may record material charges against our earnings due to impairments to our assets . our ability to make strategic acquisitions depends on our ability to identify desirable acquisition targets, negotiate advantageous transactions despite competition for such opportunities, fund such acquisitions on favorable terms, and realize the benefits we expect from those transactions. acquisitions, investments and/or new service offerings may not increase our earnings in the timeframe anticipated, or at all, due to difficulties operating in new markets or providing new service offerings, failure of emerging technologies to perform as expected, failure to operate within budget, integration issues, or regulatory issues, among others. integration of acquisitions and/or new services offerings could increase our exposure to the risk of inadvertent noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. execution of our strategy, particularly growth through acquisitions, may cause us to incur substantial additional indebtedness, which may divert capital away from our traditional business operations and other financial plans. we continue to seek to divest underperforming and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of underperforming and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low-margin businesses. in addition to the risks set forth above, implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses and changes in industry trends. we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. if we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business strategy successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. compliance with existing or future regulations and/or enforcement of such regulations may restrict or change our operations, increase our operating costs or require us to make additional capital expenditures. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level in the united states and canada have a substantial impact on our business, and compliance with such regulations is costly. a large number of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. in recent years, we have perceived an increase in both the amount of government regulation and the number of enforcement actions being brought by regulatory entities against operations in the waste services industry. we expect this heightened governmental focus on regulation and enforcement to continue. among other things, governmental regulations and enforcement actions may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer, recycling or processing facilities or on expanding existing facilities; 17 table of contents index to financial statements limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; mandates regarding the management of solid waste, including requirements to recycle, divert or otherwise process certain waste, recycling and other streams; or limitations or restrictions on the recycling, processing or transformation of waste, recycling and other streams. regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. the costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. the permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we also have significant financial obligations relating to final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation at our existing landfills. we establish accruals for these estimated costs, but we could underestimate such accruals. environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, requiring our expenditures to materially exceed our current accruals. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. from time to time, the united states congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste certain types of flow control, or courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation, could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. additionally, regulations establishing extended producer responsibility, or epr, are being considered or implemented in many places around the world, including in canada and the u.s. epr regulations are designed to place either partial or total responsibility on producers to fund the post-use life cycle of the products they create. along with the funding responsibility, producers may be required to take over management of local recycling programs by taking back their products from end users or managing the collection operations and recycling processing infrastructure. there is no federal law establishing epr in the u.s. or canada; however, state, provincial and local governments could, and in some cases have, taken steps to implement epr regulations. if wide-ranging epr regulations were adopted, they could have a fundamental impact on the waste streams we manage and how we operate our business, including contract terms and pricing. a significant reduction in the waste, recycling and other streams we manage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. enforcement or implementation of foreign regulations can affect our ability to export products. in 2013, the chinese government began to strictly enforce regulations that establish limits on moisture and non-conforming materials that may be contained in imported recycled paper and plastics as well as restricting the import of certain other plastic recyclables. the higher quality expectations resulting from initiatives such as operation green fence have driven up operating costs in the recycling industry, particularly for single stream mrfs. single stream mrfs process a wide range of commingled materials and tend to receive a higher percentage of non-recyclables, which results in increased processing and residual disposal costs. if operation green fence or other similar initiatives or 18 table of contents index to financial statements new regulations increase our operating costs in the future, and we are not able to recapture those costs from our customers, such regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our revenues, earnings and cash flows will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and plastics, which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. the majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard and old newsprint. the fluctuations in the market prices or demand for these commodities, particularly demand from chinese paper mills, can affect our operating income and cash flows negatively, such as we experienced in 2015, 2014 and 2013. as we have increased the size of our recycling operations, we have also increased our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. the decline in market prices in 2015, 2014 and 2013 for commodities resulted in year-over-year decreases in revenue of $138 million, $53 million and $79 million, respectively. additionally, under some agreements, our recycling operations are required to pay rebates to suppliers. in some cases, if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase. in other circumstances, the rebates may be subject to a floor, such that as market prices decrease, any expected profit margins on materials subject to the rebate floor are reduced or eliminated. as we work to revise service agreements to mitigate the impact of commodity price fluctuations, the potential increase in the cost for recycling services may make it more difficult for us to win bids and may slow the growth of recycling overall until market conditions improve. fluctuation in energy prices also affects our business, including recycling of plastics manufactured from petroleum products. significant variations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy-related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery operations can result in corresponding significant impact to our revenue from yield from such operations. additionally, we provide specialized disposal services for oil and gas exploration and production operations through our energy services business. demand for these services may decrease if drilling activity slows due to changes in oil and gas prices, such as the pronounced price decreases in late 2014 and 2015. any of the commodity prices to which we are subject may fluctuate substantially and without notice in the future. changes in regulations applicable to oil and gas drilling and production could adversely affect our energy services business. energy services business demand may also be adversely affected if drilling activity slows due to industry conditions beyond our control, in addition to changes in oil and gas prices. changes in laws or government regulations regarding ghg emissions from oil and gas operations and/or hydraulic fracturing could increase our customers costs of doing business and reduce oil and gas exploration and production by customers. there remains heightened attention from the public, some states and the epa to the alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to impact drinking water supplies. there is also heightened federal regulatory focus on emissions of methane that occur during drilling and transportation of natural gas with regulations promulgated in 2012 and 2015 as well as state attention to protective disposal of drilling residuals. increased regulation of oil and gas exploration and production and new rules regarding the treatment and disposal of wastes associated with exploration and production operations could increase our costs to provide oilfield services and reduce our margins and revenue from such services. increasing customer preference for alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our landfill volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. our customers are increasingly diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. in addition, many state and local governments mandate diversion, recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, food waste, and electronics at landfills. where such organic waste is not 19 table of contents index to financial statements banned from the landfill, some large customers such as grocery stores and restaurants are choosing to divert their organic waste from landfills. zero-waste goals (sending no waste to the landfill) have been set by many of north america largest companies. although such mandates and initiatives help to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to our landfills which may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. our landfills currently provide and, together with our divested waste-to-energy facilities, have historically provided our highest income from operations margins. if we are not successful in expanding our service offerings and growing lines of businesses to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, then our revenues and operating results may decline. additionally, despite the development of new service offerings and lines of business, it is possible that our revenues and our income from operations margins could be negatively affected due to disposal alternatives. developments in technology could trigger a fundamental change in the waste management industry, as waste streams are increasingly viewed as a resource, which may adversely impact volumes at our landfills and our profitability. our company and others have recognized the value of the traditional waste stream as a potential resource. research and development activities are on-going to provide disposal alternatives that maximize the value of waste, including using waste as a source for renewable energy and other valuable by-products. we and many other companies are investing in these technologies. it is possible that such investments and technological advancements may reduce the cost of waste disposal or the value of landfill gas recovery to a level below our costs and may reduce the demand for landfill space. as a result, our revenues and margins could be adversely affected due to advancements in disposal alternatives. if we are not able to develop new service offerings and protect intellectual property, or if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology, our financial results may suffer. our existing and proposed service offerings to customers may require that we invest in, develop or license, and protect, new technologies. research and development of new technologies and investment in emerging technologies often requires significant spending that may divert capital investment away from our traditional business operations. we may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services or emerging technologies in which we have invested, which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market. further, protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of intellectual property is difficult, and any inability to obtain or protect new technologies could impact our services to customers and development of new revenue sources. our company and others are increasingly focusing on new technologies that provide alternatives to traditional disposal and maximize the resource value of waste. if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology that provides a revolutionary change in traditional waste management, or if we have inferior intellectual property to our competitors, our financial results may suffer. our business depends on our reputation and the value of our brand. we believe we have developed a reputation for high-quality service, reliability and social and environmental responsibility, and we believe our brand symbolizes these attributes. the waste management brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. 20 table of contents index to financial statements our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, as well as contractual obligations that may result in significant liabilities. there is risk of incurring significant environmental liabilities in the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of waste materials. under applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. under current law, we could also be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. this risk is of particular concern as we execute our growth strategy, partially though acquisitions, because we may be unsuccessful in identifying and assessing potential liabilities during our due diligence investigations. further, the counterparties in such transactions may be unable to perform their indemnification obligations owed to us. additionally, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and, under applicable law, we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, we are currently, and we may in the future, become involved in legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and local communities, citizen groups, landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. further, we often enter into agreements with landowners imposing obligations on us to meet certain regulatory or contractual conditions upon site closure or upon termination of the agreements. compliance with these agreements inherently involves subjective determinations and may result in disputes, including litigation. costs to remediate or restore the condition of closed sites may be significant. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our revenues and our income from operations margins. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. a weak economy generally results in decreased consumer spending and decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. a weak market for consumer goods can significantly decrease demand by paper mills for recycled corrugated cardboard used in packaging; such decrease in demand can negatively impact commodity prices and our operating income and cash flows. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to quickly adjust to match shifting volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may limit the number or amount of services requested by customers. economic conditions may also limit our ability to implement our pricing strategy. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index, and our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. additionally, a prolonged economic downturn in china could significantly impact prices for post-consumer fiber and metals processed by our recycling operations. 21 table of contents index to financial statements some of our customers, including governmental entities, have suffered financial difficulties affecting their credit risk, which could negatively impact our operating results. we provide service to a number of governmental entities and municipalities, some of which have suffered significant financial difficulties in recent years, due in part to reduced tax revenue and/or high cost structures. some of these entities could be unable to pay amounts owed to us or renew contracts with us at previous or increased rates. many non-governmental customers have also suffered serious financial difficulties, including bankruptcy in some cases. purchasers of our recyclable commodities can be particularly vulnerable to financial difficulties in times of commodity price volatility. the inability of our customers to pay us in a timely manner or to pay increased rates, particularly large national accounts, could negatively affect our operating results. in addition, the financial difficulties of municipalities could result in a decline in investors demand for municipal bonds and a correlating increase in interest rates. as of december 31, 2015, we had $491 million of variable-rate tax-exempt bonds with interest rates reset on either a daily or a weekly basis through a remarketing process and $316 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to repricing within the next 12 months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. if the weakness in the municipal debt market results in repricing of our tax-exempt bonds at significantly higher interest rates, we will incur increased interest expenses that may negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. our ability to meet our financial and operating objectives depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain the permits necessary to operate landfill sites. permits to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills and transfer stations, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities or expanding existing facilities. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant shortages in diesel fuel supply or increases in diesel fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. the price and supply of diesel fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. we need diesel fuel to run a significant portion of our collection and transfer trucks and our equipment used in our landfill operations. supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. additionally, if fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses increase and many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. additionally, we recently agreed on settlement terms for two cases that pertained to our fuel and environmental charges included on our invoices, and we may face similar claims in the future. see note 11 of the consolidated financial statements for more information. regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, increased operating costs due to higher diesel fuel prices will decrease our income from operations margins. 22 table of contents index to financial statements we have an extensive natural gas truck fleet, which makes us partially dependent on the availability of natural gas and fueling infrastructure and vulnerable to natural gas prices. we operate a large fleet of natural gas vehicles, and we plan to continue to invest in these assets for our collection fleet. however, natural gas fueling infrastructure is not yet broadly available in north america; as a result, we have constructed and operate natural gas fueling stations, some of which also serve the public or pre-approved third parties. it will remain necessary for us to invest capital in fueling infrastructure in order to power our natural gas fleet. concerns have been raised about the potential for emissions from fueling infrastructure that serve natural gas-fueled vehicles. new regulation of, or restrictions on, natural gas fueling infrastructure or reductions in associated tax incentives could increase our operating costs. additionally, fluctuations in the price and supply of natural gas could substantially increase our operating expenses, and a reduction in the existing cost differential between natural gas and diesel fuel could materially reduce the benefits we anticipate from our investment in natural gas vehicles. further, our fuel surcharge program is currently indexed to diesel fuel prices, and price fluctuations for natural gas may not effectively be recovered by this program. we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with the operation of our current information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, as well as the development and deployment of new information technology systems, that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. a cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers. we use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers credit card information. further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential liability and competitive disadvantage. our operating expenses could increase as a result of labor unions organizing or changes in regulations related to labor unions. labor unions continually attempt to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees are currently represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with these unions. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention 23 table of contents index to financial statements and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, our operating expenses could increase significantly as a result of work stoppages, including strikes. any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could face significant liabilities for withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans. we are a participating employer in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer, defined benefit pension plans for employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the event of our withdrawal from multiemployer pension plan, we may incur expenses associated with our obligations for unfunded vested benefits at the time of the withdrawal. depending on various factors, future withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on results of operations or cash flows for a particular reporting period. we have previously withdrawn several employee bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans, and we recognized related expenses of $51 million in 2015, $4 million in 2014 and $5 million in 2013. see notes 10 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements for more information related to our participation in multiemployer pension plans. our business is subject to operational and safety risks, including the risk of personal injury to employees and others. providing environmental and waste management services, including constructing and operating landfills, involves risks such as truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures. additionally, we closely monitor and manage landfills to minimize the risk of waste mass instability, releases of hazardous materials, and odors that could be triggered by weather or natural disasters. there may also be risks presented by the potential for subsurface chemical reactions causing elevated landfill temperatures and increased production of leachate, landfill gas and odors. we also build and operate natural gas fueling stations, some of which also serve the public or third parties. operation of fueling stations and landfill gas collection and control systems involves additional risks of fire and explosion. any of these risks could potentially result in injury or death of employees and others, a need to shut down or reduce operation of facilities, increased operating expense and exposure to liability for pollution and other environmental damage, and property damage or destruction. while we seek to minimize our exposure to such risks through comprehensive training, compliance and response and recovery programs, as well as vehicle and equipment maintenance programs, if we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of any applicable insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. any such incidents could also tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. additionally, a major operational failure, even if suffered by a competitor, may bring enhanced scrutiny and regulation of our industry, with a corresponding increase in operating expense. we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide and, therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily-required levels. we face the risk of incurring additional costs for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of other insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby enabling us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. the inability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect of significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may subject us to additional risks. to the extent our insurers are unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims are more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. 24 table of contents index to financial statements in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to variable-rate tax-exempt debt, final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, fund trust and escrow accounts or rely upon wm financial guarantees. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. our financial position, which can be negatively affected by asset impairments, our credit profile and general economic factors, may adversely affect the cost of our current financial assurance instruments, and changes in regulations may impose stricter requirements on the types of financial assurance that will be accepted. additionally, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. it is possible that we could be forced to deposit cash to collateralize our obligations. other forms of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, and any requirements to use cash to support our obligations would negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. we may record material charges against our earnings due to impairments to our assets. in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ), we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. events that could, in some circumstances, lead to an impairment include, but are not limited to, shutting down a facility or operation or abandoning a development project or the denial of an expansion permit. additionally, declining waste volumes and development of, and customer preference for, alternatives to traditional waste disposal could warrant asset impairments. if we determine an asset or expansion project is impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such asset or project reduced by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet, which is required to be assessed for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may be required to incur charges against earnings if such impairment tests indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying value. any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our capital requirements and our business strategy could increase our expenses, cause us to change our growth and development plans, or result in an inability to maintain our desired credit profile. if economic conditions or other risks and uncertainties cause a significant reduction in our cash flows from operations, we may reduce or suspend capital expenditures, growth and acquisition activity, implementation of our business strategy, dividend declarations or share repurchases. we may choose to incur indebtedness to pay for these activities, although our access to capital markets is not assured and we may not be able to incur indebtedness at a cost that is consistent with current borrowing rates. we also may need to incur indebtedness to refinance scheduled debt maturities, and it is possible that the cost of financing could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. further, our ability to execute our financial strategy and our ability to incur indebtedness is somewhat dependent upon our ability to maintain investment grade ratings on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon our credit profile, as well as a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including methodologies established and interpreted by third party rating agencies. if we were unable to maintain our investment grade credit ratings in the future, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected. additionally, we have $911 million of debt as of december 31, 2015 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months because of the combined impact of our tax-exempt bonds and borrowings outstanding under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and canadian term loan. if interest rates increase, our interest expense would also increase, lowering our net income and decreasing our cash flow. 25 table of contents index to financial statements we may use our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and our c$150 million canadian revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available, until maturity in july 2020 and november 2017, respectively. as of december 31, 2015, we had $20 million of outstanding borrowings and $831 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the $2.25 billion revolving credit facility, leaving an unused and available credit capacity of $1,399 million, and we had no outstanding borrowings under the canadian revolving credit facility. in the event of a default under our credit facilities, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a ghg. there are a number of legislative and regulatory efforts at the state, regional and federal levels to curtail the emission of ghgs to ameliorate the effect of climate change. should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it could impose costs on our operations that might not be offset by the revenue increases associated with our lower-carbon service options, the materiality of which we cannot predict. in 2010, the epa published a prevention of significant deterioration and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule, which expanded the epa federal air permitting authority to include the six ghgs. the rule sets new thresholds for ghg emissions that define when clean air act permits are required. the current requirements of these rules have not significantly affected our operations or cash flows, due to the tailored thresholds and exclusions of certain emissions from regulation. however, if certain changes to these regulations were enacted, such as lowering the thresholds or the inclusion of biogenic emissions, then the amendments could have an adverse effect on our operating costs. the seasonal nature of our business, severe weather events and one-time special projects cause our results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. service disruptions caused by severe storms, extended periods of inclement weather or climate extremes resulting from climate change can significantly affect the operating results of the affected areas. on the other hand, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes that most often impact our operations in the southern and eastern u.s., can actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. while weather-related and other one-time occurrences can boost revenues through additional work for a limited time, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue can generate earnings at comparatively lower margins. for these and other reasons, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. our stock price may be negatively impacted by interim variations in our results. we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and our reputation could be adversely affected, if our businesses, or third parties with whom we have a relationship, were to fail to comply with united states or foreign laws or regulations. some of our projects and new business may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically been prevalent. it is our policy to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt 26 table of contents index to financial statements practices act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate, and we monitor our local partners compliance with such laws as well. our reputation may be adversely affected if we were reported to be associated with corrupt practices or if we or our local partners failed to comply with such laws. such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. additionally, violations of such laws could subject us to significant fines and penalties. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. we are involved in civil litigation in the ordinary course of our business and from time-to-time are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. we may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported financial position or operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount. as of december 31, 2015, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures. we are exposed to credit risk in the event of non-performance by our derivative counterparties. however, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties. interest rate exposure our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities, although our interest costs can also be significantly affected by our ongoing financial assurance needs, which are discussed in the financial assurance and insurance obligations section of item 1. as of december 31, 2015, we had $9.0 billion of long-term debt when excluding the impacts of accounting for fair value adjustments attributable to interest rate derivatives, discounts and premiums. approximately, $911 million of our debt is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months. our variable-rate debt obligations are (i) $491 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process; (ii) $316 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to repricing within 12 months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities; (iii) $84 million of outstanding borrowings under our canadian term loan and (iv) $20 million of borrowings outstanding under $2.25 billion revolving credit facility. we currently estimate that a 100 basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2016 interest expense by approximately $8 million. as of december 31, 2014, the effective interest rates of approximately $1.4 billion of our outstanding debt obligations were subject to change within 12 months. our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed-rate tax exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds twelve months. the fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations and various interest rate derivative instruments, if any, can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change. we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive debt instruments. this analysis is inherently limited because it reflects a singular, 68 table of contents index to financial statements hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. an instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our debt by approximately $600 million at december 31, 2015. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have cash and cash equivalent balances as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. these assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in u.s. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. commodity price exposure in the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including old corrugated cardboard, old newsprint and plastics; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets in which we operate. during the three years ended december 31, 2015, we generally have not entered into derivatives to hedge the risks associated with changes in the market prices of these commodities, with the exception of electricity commodity derivatives divested in conjunction with the sale of our wheelabrator business in december 2014. alternatively, we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues also increase or decrease. currency rate exposure we have operations in canada as well as a cost center in india and investments in hong kong. where significant, we have quantified and described the impact of foreign currency translation on components of income, including operating revenue and operating costs. however, the impact of foreign currency has not materially affected our results of operations. during 2015, we did see a reduction in stockholders equity of $159 million due to the fluctuations in the canadian dollar within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). we hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk using currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. in addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the company. the foreign currency exposure associated with these investments has not been material. refer to notes 8 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our foreign currency derivatives and translation. 69 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors 16 risk factors the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. the epa clarified in its november 19, 2014 policy memorandum that states may rely on waste-derived biogenic feedstocks in their future proposed compliance plans required by the final clean power plan rules and the proposed federal plan, both published in october 2015, which may create new or expanded opportunities for renewable energy projects. according to the epa, the federal plan would fill any gaps pending implementation of state or tribal plans to achieve required emissions reductions, but would no longer apply when a state or tribal plan is approved. we are taking steps to anticipate the future needs of our customers which include investing in and developing ever-more-advanced recycling and reuse technologies. potential climate change and ghg regulatory initiatives have influenced our business strategy to provide low-carbon services to our customers, and we increasingly view our ability to offer lower carbon services as a key component of our business growth. if the united states were to impose a carbon tax or other form of ghg regulation increasing demand for low-carbon service offerings in the future, the services we are developing will be increasingly valuable. in 2011, the epa published the non-hazardous secondary materials ( nhsm ) rule, which provides the standards and procedures for identifying whether nhsm are solid waste under rcra when used as fuels or ingredients in combustion units. the epa also published new source performance standards and emission guidelines for commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units ( ciswi ) and maximum achievable control technology standards for commercial and industrial boilers ( boiler mact ). the epa published clarifications and amendments to the three rules in 2013 and legal challenges to the rules were subsequently filed by both industry and environmental groups. in may 2015, the court of appeals for the d.c. circuit upheld the nhsm rule together with the amendments to the rule that support some of our projects in which we are seeking to convert biomass or other secondary materials into products, fuels or energy. through rulings in july and december of 2016 related to the ciswi and boiler mact challenges, the court vacated certain elements of those rules while remanding other aspects of the rules to the epa for reconsideration. because the epa reconsideration process is ongoing it is not possible to quantify the financial impact of all these rulemakings at the present time. however, we believe the rules and administrative determinations will not have a material adverse impact on our business as a whole and are more likely to facilitate our efforts to reuse or recover energy value from secondary material streams. in december 2014, the epa issued a final rule regulating the disposal and beneficial use of coal combustion residuals ( ccr ). the regulations encourage beneficial use of ccr in encapsulated uses (e.g., used in cement or wallboard), and use according to established industry standards (e.g., application of sludge for agricultural enrichment). the epa also deemed disposal and beneficial use of ccr at permitted municipal solid waste landfills exempt from the new regulations because the rcra subtitle d standards applicable at municipal solid waste landfills provide at least equivalent protection. the new standards are consistent with our approach to handling ccr at our sites currently, and we believe the new standards will provide a potential growth opportunity for the company. states may impose standards more stringent than the federal program, and under the 2016 water infrastructure improvements for the nation act, may receive approval to run permitting programs for ccr in their states. this codification of the ccr rule provides utilities with a stable regulatory regime. 13 table of contents index to financial statements state, provincial and local regulations there are also various state or provincial and local regulations that affect our operations. each state and province in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. states and provinces have also adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. our landfill operations are affected by the increasing preference for alternatives to landfill disposal. many state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, food waste, and electronics at landfills. the number of state and local governments with recycling requirements and disposal bans continues to grow, while the logistics and economics of recycling the items remain challenging. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. while laws that overtly discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory have been upheld in court. from time to time, the united states congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. in 1994, the u.s. supreme court ruled that a flow control ordinance that gave preference to a local facility that was privately owned was unconstitutional, but in 2007, the court ruled that an ordinance directing waste to a facility owned by the local government was constitutional. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control, or courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation, could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. additionally, regulations establishing extended producer responsibility ( epr ) are being considered or implemented in many places around the world, including in the united states and canada. epr regulations are designed to place either partial or total responsibility on producers to fund the post-use life cycle of the products they create. along with the funding responsibility, producers may be required to take over management of local recycling programs by taking back their products from end users or managing the collection operations and recycling processing infrastructure. there is no federal law establishing epr in the united states or canada; however, state, provincial and local governments could take, and in some cases have taken, steps to implement epr regulations. if wide-ranging epr regulations were adopted, they could have a fundamental impact on the waste, recycling and other streams we manage and how we operate our business, including contract terms and pricing. many states, provinces and local jurisdictions have enacted fitness laws that allow the agencies that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the applicant or permit holder compliance history. some states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further and consider the compliance history of the parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant or permit holder. these laws authorize the agencies to make determinations of an applicant or permit holder fitness to be awarded a contract to operate, and to deny or revoke a contract or permit because of unfitness, unless there is a showing that the applicant or permit holder has been rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies and procedures put in place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations. foreign import and export regulations enforcement or implementation of foreign and domestic regulations can affect our ability to export products. a significant portion of the fiber that we market is shipped to export markets across the globe, 14 table of contents index to financial statements particularly china. in 2013, the chinese government began to strictly enforce regulations that establish limits on moisture and non-conforming materials that may be contained in imported recycled paper and plastics as well as restricting the import of certain other plastic recyclables. the higher quality expectations resulting from initiatives such as operation green fence, as well as increased container weight tracking and port fees, have driven up operating costs in the recycling industry. additionally, the new presidential administration has called for substantial changes to foreign trade policy and has raised the possibility of imposing significant increases in tariffs on international trade. restrictions and tariffs on exporting would have a significant impact on our recycling operations. single stream mrfs process a wide range of commingled materials and tend to receive a higher percentage of non-recyclables, which results in increased processing and residual disposal costs. despite increased costs associated with export requirements, we believe we are well positioned among our potential competitors to respond to and comply with such regulations. in recent years, we have been revising our service agreements to address these increased costs and are working with stakeholders to educate the general public on the need to recycle properly. hydraulic fracturing regulation our energy services line of business provides specialized environmental management and disposal services for oil and gas exploration and production operations. there remains heightened attention from the public, some states and the epa on the alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to impact drinking water supplies. there is also heightened federal regulatory focus on emissions of methane that occur during drilling and transportation of natural gas with regulations promulgated in 2012 and 2015, as well as state attention to protective disposal of drilling residuals. increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing and new rules regarding the treatment and disposal of wastes associated with exploration and production operations could increase our costs to provide oilfield services and reduce our margins and revenue from such services. on the other hand, we believe the size, capital structure, regulatory sophistication and established reliability of our company provide us with an advantage in providing services that must comply with any complex regulatory regime that may govern providing oilfield waste services. emissions from natural gas fueling and infrastructure we operate a large fleet of natural gas vehicles, and we plan to continue to invest in these assets for our collection fleet. as of december 31, 2016, we were operating 95 natural gas fueling facilities, 28 of which also serve the public or pre-approved third parties, in 31 states and three canadian provinces. concerns have been raised about the potential for emissions from the fueling stations and infrastructure that serve natural gas-fueled vehicles. we have partnered with the environmental organization environmental defense fund, as well as other heavy-duty equipment users and experts, on an emissions study to be made available to policy makers. we anticipate that this comprehensive study of emissions from our heavy-duty fleet may ultimately help inform regulations that will affect equipment manufacturers and will define operating procedures across the industry. additional regulation of, or restrictions on, natural gas fueling infrastructure or reductions in associated tax incentives could increase our operating costs. we are not yet able to evaluate potential operating changes or costs associated with such regulations, but we do not anticipate that such regulations would have a material adverse impact on our business or our future investment in natural gas vehicles. federal, state and local climate change initiatives in light of regulatory and business developments related to concerns about climate change, we have identified a strategic business opportunity to provide our public and private sector customers with sustainable solutions to reduce their ghg emissions. as part of our on-going marketing evaluations, we assess customer demand for and opportunities to develop waste services offering verifiable carbon reductions, such as waste reduction, increased recycling, and conversion of landfill gas and discarded materials into electricity and fuel. 15 table of contents index to financial statements we use carbon life cycle tools in evaluating potential new services and in establishing the value proposition that makes us attractive as an environmental service provider. we are active in support of public policies that encourage development and use of lower carbon energy and waste services that lower users carbon footprints. we understand the importance of broad stakeholder engagement in these endeavors, and actively seek opportunities for public policy discussion on more sustainable materials management practices. in addition, we work with stakeholders at the federal and state level in support of legislation that encourages production and use of renewable, low-carbon fuels and electricity. we continue to assess the physical risks to company operations from the effects of severe weather events and use risk mitigation planning to increase our resiliency in the face of such events. we are investing in infrastructure to withstand more severe storm events, which may afford us a competitive advantage and reinforce our reputation as a reliable service provider through continued service in the aftermath of such events. item 1a. risk factors. in an effort to keep our stockholders and the public informed about our business, we may make forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. forward-looking statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, forecast, project, estimate, intend and words of a similar nature and generally include statements containing: projections about accounting and finances; plans and objectives for the future; projections or estimates about assumptions relating to our performance; or our opinions, views or beliefs about the effects of current or future events, circumstances or performance. you should view these statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. they are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. all aspects of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2017 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the company. the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. in north america, the industry consists primarily of three national waste management companies and regional and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources, including companies that specialize in certain discrete areas of waste management, operators of alternative disposal facilities and companies that seek to use parts of the waste stream as feedstock for renewable energy and other by-products. in recent years, the industry has seen some additional consolidation, though the industry remains intensely competitive. the industry national and regional competitors are often significant competitors in local markets. we compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations and waste brokers that rely upon haulers in local markets to address customer 16 table of contents index to financial statements needs. these counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, some of our competitors may have lower financial expectations, allowing them to reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively-bid contracts, including large national accounts and exclusive franchise arrangements with municipalities. when this happens, we may lose customers and be unable to execute our pricing strategy, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business. if we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected. our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. implementation of our strategy will require effective management of our operational, financial and human resources and will place significant demands on those resources. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview for more information on our business strategy. there are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following: our employees, customers or investors may not embrace and support our strategy. we may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to manage our strategy effectively. a key element of our strategy is yield management through focus on price leadership, which has presented challenges to keep existing business and win new business at reasonable returns. we have also continued our environmental fee, fuel surcharge and regulatory recovery fee to offset costs. the loss of volumes as a result of price increases and our unwillingness to pursue lower margin volumes may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. additionally, we have in the past and continue to face purported class action lawsuits related to our customer service agreements, prices and fees. we may be unsuccessful in implementing improvements to operational efficiency and such efforts may not yield the intended result. we may not be able to maintain cost savings achieved through restructuring efforts. strategic decisions with respect to our asset portfolio may result in impairments to our assets. see item 1a. risk factors we may record material charges against our earnings due to impairments to our assets . our ability to make strategic acquisitions depends on our ability to identify desirable acquisition targets, negotiate advantageous transactions despite competition for such opportunities, fund such acquisitions on favorable terms, and realize the benefits we expect from those transactions. acquisitions, investments and/or new service offerings may not increase our earnings in the timeframe anticipated, or at all, due to difficulties operating in new markets or providing new service offerings, failure of emerging technologies to perform as expected, failure to operate within budget, integration issues, or regulatory issues, among others. integration of acquisitions and/or new services offerings could increase our exposure to the risk of inadvertent noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. liabilities associated with acquisitions, including ones that may exist only because of past operations of an acquired business, may prove to be more difficult or costly to address than anticipated. execution of our strategy, particularly growth through acquisitions, may cause us to incur substantial additional indebtedness, which may divert capital away from our traditional business operations and other financial plans. 17 table of contents index to financial statements we continue to seek to divest underperforming and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of underperforming and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low-margin businesses. in addition to the risks set forth above, implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses and changes in industry trends. we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. if we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business strategy successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. compliance with existing or increased future regulations and/or enforcement of such regulations may restrict or change our operations, increase our operating costs or require us to make additional capital expenditures, and a decrease in regulation may lower barriers to entry for our competitors. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial, and local level in the united states and canada have a substantial impact on our business, and compliance with such regulations is costly. a large number of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. among other things, governmental regulations and enforcement actions may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer, recycling or processing facilities or on expanding existing facilities; limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; mandates regarding the management of solid waste, including requirements to recycle, divert or otherwise process certain waste, recycling and other streams; or limitations or restrictions on the recycling, processing or transformation of waste, recycling and other streams. regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. the costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. the permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. we also have significant financial obligations relating to final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation at our existing landfills. we establish accruals for these estimated costs, but we could underestimate such accruals because of the types of waste collected and manner in which it is transported and disposed of, including actions taken in the past by companies we have acquired or third-party landfill operators, among other reasons. environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, requiring our expenditures to materially exceed our current accruals. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. from time to time, the united states congress has considered legislation 18 table of contents index to financial statements authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. the united states congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste certain types of flow control, or courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation, could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. additionally, regulations establishing extended producer responsibility ( epr ) are being considered or implemented in many places around the world, including in the united states and canada. epr regulations are designed to place either partial or total responsibility on producers to fund the post-use life cycle of the products they create. along with the funding responsibility, producers may be required to take over management of local recycling programs by taking back their products from end users or managing the collection operations and recycling processing infrastructure. there is no federal law establishing epr in the united states or canada; however, state, provincial and local governments could, and in some cases have, taken steps to implement epr regulations. if wide-ranging epr regulations were adopted, they could have a fundamental impact on the waste streams we manage and how we operate our business, including contract terms and pricing. a significant reduction in the waste, recycling and other streams we manage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in recent years, we perceived an increase in both the amount of government regulation and the number of enforcement actions being brought by regulatory entities against operations in the waste services industry. however, the new united states presidential administration has called for substantial changes to areas of federal tax and foreign trade policy and has generally appeared to be in favor of reducing regulation, including environmental regulation. we cannot predict what impact the new administration will have on the political and regulatory environment in the united states, the timing of any such changes, or the impact of any such changes on our business. while reduction of regulation may have a favorable impact on our operating costs, the extensive environmental regulation applicable to landfills is a substantial barrier to entry that benefits our company. it is likely that some policies adopted by the new administration will benefit us and others will negatively affect us. enforcement or implementation of foreign regulations can affect our ability to export products. a significant portion of the fiber that we market is shipped to export markets across the globe, particularly china. in 2013, the chinese government began to strictly enforce regulations that establish limits on moisture and non-conforming materials that may be contained in imported recycled paper and plastics as well as restricting the import of certain other plastic recyclables. the higher quality expectations resulting from initiatives such as operation green fence have driven up operating costs in the recycling industry, particularly for single stream mrfs. single stream mrfs process a wide range of commingled materials and tend to receive a higher percentage of non-recyclables, which results in increased processing and residual disposal costs. additionally, the new presidential administration has called for substantial changes to foreign trade policy and has raised the possibility of imposing significant increases in tariffs on international trade. if operation green fence or other similar initiatives, such as increased container weight tracking and port fees, new regulations, or restrictions and tariffs on exporting increase our operating costs in the future, and we are not able to recapture those costs from our customers, such initiatives regulations, restrictions and tariffs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our revenues, earnings and cash flows will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices. our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and plastics, which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. the majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard and old newsprint, and the price fluctuations for these commodities could be impacted by significant changes in united states foreign trade policy and increased tariffs on international trade, as chinese paper mills are the primary consumer of the fiber we market. the fluctuations in the market prices or demand for these commodities can affect our operating income and cash 19 table of contents index to financial statements flows positively, as we experienced in 2016, or negatively, as we experienced in 2015 and 2014. as we have increased the size of our recycling operations, we have also increased our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. the increase in market prices in 2016 for commodities resulted in a year-over-year increase in revenue of $51 million. the decline in market prices in 2015 and 2014 for commodities resulted in year-over-year decreases in revenue of $138 million and $53 million, respectively. additionally, under some agreements, our recycling operations are required to pay rebates to suppliers. in some cases, if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for recycling commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase. in other circumstances, the rebates may be subject to a floor, such that as market prices decrease, any expected profit margins on materials subject to the rebate floor are reduced or eliminated. as we work to revise service agreements to mitigate the impact of commodity price fluctuations, the potential increase in the cost for recycling services may make it more difficult for us to win bids and may slow the growth of recycling overall. fluctuation in energy prices also affects our business, including recycling of plastics manufactured from petroleum products. significant variations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy-related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery operations can result in corresponding significant impact to our revenue from yield from such operations. additionally, we provide specialized disposal services for oil and gas exploration and production operations through our energy services business. demand for these services decreases when drilling activity slows due to depressed oil and gas prices, such as the pronounced price decreases beginning in late 2014 and continuing low prices throughout 2015 and 2016. any of the commodity prices to which we are subject may fluctuate substantially and without notice in the future. changes in regulations applicable to oil and gas drilling and production could adversely affect our energy services business. energy services business demand may also be adversely affected if drilling activity slows due to industry conditions beyond our control, in addition to changes in oil and gas prices. changes in laws or government regulations regarding ghg emissions from oil and gas operations and/or hydraulic fracturing could increase our customers costs of doing business and reduce oil and gas exploration and production by customers. there remains heightened attention from the public, some states and the epa to the alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to impact drinking water supplies. there is also heightened federal regulatory focus on emissions of methane that occur during drilling and transportation of natural gas with regulations promulgated in 2012 and 2015 as well as state attention to protective disposal of drilling residuals. increased regulation of oil and gas exploration and production and new rules regarding the treatment and disposal of wastes associated with exploration and production operations could increase our costs to provide oilfield services and reduce our margins and revenue from such services. increasing customer preference for alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our landfill volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. our customers are increasingly diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. in addition, many state and local governments mandate diversion, recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, food waste, and electronics at landfills. where such organic waste is not banned from the landfill, some large customers such as grocery stores and restaurants are choosing to divert their organic waste from landfills. zero-waste goals (sending no waste to the landfill) have been set by many of north america largest companies. although such mandates and initiatives help to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to our landfills which may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. our landfills currently provide and, together with our divested waste-to-energy facilities, have historically provided our highest income from operations margins. if we are not successful in expanding our service offerings and growing lines of businesses to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, then our revenues and operating results may decline. additionally, despite the development of new service offerings and lines of business, it is possible that our revenues and our income from operations margins could be negatively affected due to disposal alternatives. 20 table of contents index to financial statements developments in technology could trigger a fundamental change in the waste management industry, as waste streams are increasingly viewed as a resource, which may adversely impact volumes at our landfills and our profitability. our company and others have recognized the value of the traditional waste stream as a potential resource. research and development activities are on-going to provide disposal alternatives that maximize the value of waste, including using waste as a source for renewable energy and other valuable by-products. we and many other companies are investing in these technologies. it is possible that such investments and technological advancements may reduce the cost of waste disposal or the value of landfill gas recovery to a level below our costs and may reduce the demand for landfill space. as a result, our revenues and margins could be adversely affected due to advancements in disposal alternatives. if we are not able to develop new service offerings and protect intellectual property, or if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology, our financial results may suffer. our existing and proposed service offerings to customers may require that we invest in, develop or license, and protect, new technologies. research and development of new technologies and investment in emerging technologies often requires significant spending that may divert capital investment away from our traditional business operations. we may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services or emerging technologies in which we have invested, which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market. further, protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of intellectual property is difficult, and any inability to obtain or protect new technologies could impact our services to customers and development of new revenue sources. our company and others are increasingly focusing on new technologies that provide alternatives to traditional disposal and maximize the resource value of waste. if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology that provides a revolutionary change in traditional waste management, or if we have inferior intellectual property to our competitors, our financial results may suffer. our business depends on our reputation and the value of our brand. we believe we have developed a reputation for high-quality service, reliability and social and environmental responsibility, and we believe our brand symbolizes these attributes. the waste management brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, as well as contractual obligations that may result in significant liabilities. there is risk of incurring significant environmental liabilities in the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of waste materials. under applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. under current law, we could also be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. this risk is of particular concern as we execute our growth strategy, partially though acquisitions, because we may be unsuccessful in identifying and assessing potential liabilities during our due diligence investigations. further, the counterparties in such transactions may be unable to perform their indemnification obligations owed to us. 21 table of contents index to financial statements additionally, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and, under applicable law, we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, we are currently, and we may in the future, become involved in legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and local communities, citizen groups, landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. further, we often enter into agreements with landowners imposing obligations on us to meet certain regulatory or contractual conditions upon site closure or upon termination of the agreements. compliance with these agreements inherently involves subjective determinations and may result in disputes, including litigation. costs to remediate or restore the condition of closed sites may be significant. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our revenues and our income from operations margins. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. a weak economy generally results in decreased consumer spending and decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. a weak market for consumer goods can significantly decrease demand by paper mills for recycled corrugated cardboard used in packaging; such decrease in demand can negatively impact commodity prices and our operating income and cash flows. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to quickly adjust to match shifting volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may limit the number or amount of services requested by customers. economic conditions may also limit our ability to implement our pricing strategy. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index, and our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. additionally, a prolonged economic downturn in china could significantly impact prices for post-consumer fiber and metals processed by our recycling operations. some of our customers, including governmental entities, have suffered financial difficulties affecting their credit risk, which could negatively impact our operating results. we provide service to a number of governmental entities and municipalities, some of which have suffered significant financial difficulties in recent years, due in part to reduced tax revenue and/or high cost structures. some of these entities could be unable to pay amounts owed to us or renew contracts with us at previous or increased rates. many non-governmental customers have also suffered serious financial difficulties, including bankruptcy in some cases. purchasers of our recyclable commodities can be particularly vulnerable to financial difficulties in times of commodity price volatility. the inability of our customers to pay us in a timely manner or to pay increased rates, particularly large national accounts, could negatively affect our operating results. 22 table of contents index to financial statements in addition, the financial difficulties of municipalities could result in a decline in investors demand for municipal bonds and a correlating increase in interest rates. as of december 31, 2016, we had $491 million of variable-rate tax-exempt bonds with interest rates reset on either a daily or a weekly basis through a remarketing process and $473 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to repricing within the next 12 months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. if the weakness in the municipal debt market results in repricing of our tax-exempt bonds at significantly higher interest rates, we will incur increased interest expenses that may negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. our ability to meet our financial and operating objectives depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain the permits necessary to operate landfill sites. permits to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills and transfer stations, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities or expanding existing facilities. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant shortages in diesel fuel supply or increases in diesel fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. the price and supply of diesel fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. we need diesel fuel to run a significant portion of our collection and transfer trucks and our equipment used in our landfill operations. supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. additionally, if fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses increase and many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. additionally, we have recently settled cases that pertained to our fuel and environmental charges included on our invoices, and we continue to face similar claims. see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for more information. regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, increased operating costs due to higher diesel fuel prices will decrease our income from operations margins. we have an extensive natural gas truck fleet, which makes us partially dependent on the availability of natural gas and fueling infrastructure and vulnerable to natural gas prices. we operate a large fleet of natural gas vehicles, and we plan to continue to invest in these assets for our collection fleet. however, natural gas fueling infrastructure is not yet broadly available in north america; as a result, we have constructed and operate natural gas fueling stations, some of which also serve the public or pre-approved third parties. it will remain necessary for us to invest capital in fueling infrastructure in order to power our natural gas fleet. concerns have been raised about the potential for emissions from fueling infrastructure that serve natural gas-fueled vehicles. new regulation of, or restrictions on, natural gas fueling infrastructure or reductions in associated tax incentives could increase our operating costs. additionally, fluctuations in the price 23 table of contents index to financial statements and supply of natural gas could substantially increase our operating expenses, and a reduction in the existing cost differential between natural gas and diesel fuel could materially reduce the benefits we anticipate from our investment in natural gas vehicles. further, our fuel surcharge program is currently indexed to diesel fuel prices, and price fluctuations for natural gas may not effectively be recovered by this program. we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with the operation of our current information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, as well as the development and deployment of new information technology systems, that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. a cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers and expose us to litigation risk. we use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers credit card information. further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential litigation and liability and competitive disadvantage. our operating expenses could increase as a result of labor unions organizing or changes in regulations related to labor unions. labor unions continually attempt to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees are currently represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with these unions. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, the negotiation of collective bargaining agreements could divert management attention and result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, our operating expenses could increase significantly as a result of work stoppages, including strikes. any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could face significant liabilities for withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans. we are a participating employer in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer defined benefit pension plans ( multiemployer pension plans ) for employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. in 24 table of contents index to financial statements the event of our withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan, we may incur expenses associated with our obligations for unfunded vested benefits at the time of the withdrawal. depending on various factors, future withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on results of operations or cash flows for a particular reporting period. we have previously withdrawn several employee bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans, and we recognized related expenses of $51 million in 2015 and $4 million in 2014. see notes 10 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements for more information related to our participation in multiemployer pension plans. our business is subject to operational and safety risks, including the risk of personal injury to employees and others. providing environmental and waste management services, including constructing and operating landfills, involves risks such as truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures. additionally, we closely monitor and manage landfills to minimize the risk of waste mass instability, releases of hazardous materials, and odors that could be triggered by weather or natural disasters. there may also be risks presented by the potential for subsurface heat reactions causing elevated landfill temperatures and increased production of leachate, landfill gas and odors. we also build and operate natural gas fueling stations, some of which also serve the public or third parties. operation of fueling stations and landfill gas collection and control systems involves additional risks of fire and explosion. any of these risks could potentially result in injury or death of employees and others, a need to shut down or reduce operation of facilities, increased operating expense and exposure to liability for pollution and other environmental damage, and property damage or destruction. while we seek to minimize our exposure to such risks through comprehensive training, compliance and response and recovery programs, as well as vehicle and equipment maintenance programs, if we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of any applicable insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. any such incidents could also tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. additionally, a major operational failure, even if suffered by a competitor, may bring enhanced scrutiny and regulation of our industry, with a corresponding increase in operating expense. we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide and, therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily-required levels. we face the risk of incurring additional costs for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of other insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby enabling us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. the inability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect of significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may subject us to additional risks. to the extent our insurers are unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims are more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to variable-rate tax-exempt debt, final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, fund trust and escrow accounts or rely upon wm financial guarantees. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. our financial position, which can be negatively affected by asset impairments, our credit profile and general economic factors, may adversely affect the cost of our current financial assurance instruments, and changes in regulations may impose stricter requirements on the types of financial assurance that will be accepted. additionally, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party 25 table of contents index to financial statements insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. it is possible that we could be forced to deposit cash to collateralize our obligations. other forms of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, and any requirements to use cash to support our obligations would negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. we may record material charges against our earnings due to impairments to our assets. in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. events that could, in some circumstances, lead to an impairment include, but are not limited to, shutting down a facility or operation or abandoning a development project or the denial of an expansion permit. additionally, declining waste volumes and development of, and customer preference for, alternatives to traditional waste disposal could warrant asset impairments. if we determine an asset or expansion project is impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such asset or project reduced by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet, which is required to be assessed for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may be required to incur charges against earnings if such impairment tests indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying value. any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our capital requirements and our business strategy could increase our expenses, cause us to change our growth and development plans, or result in an inability to maintain our desired credit profile. if economic conditions or other risks and uncertainties cause a significant reduction in our cash flows from operations, we may reduce or suspend capital expenditures, growth and acquisition activity, implementation of our business strategy, dividend declarations or share repurchases. we may choose to incur indebtedness to pay for these activities, although our access to capital markets is not assured and we may not be able to incur indebtedness at a cost that is consistent with current borrowing rates. we also may need to incur indebtedness to refinance scheduled debt maturities, and it is possible that the cost of financing could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. further, our ability to execute our financial strategy and our ability to incur indebtedness is somewhat dependent upon our ability to maintain investment grade credit ratings on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon our credit profile, as well as a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including methodologies established and interpreted by third-party rating agencies. if we were unable to maintain our investment grade credit ratings in the future, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected. additionally, we have $1.6 billion of debt as of december 31, 2016 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months because of the combined impact of our tax-exempt bonds and borrowings outstanding under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and canadian term loan. if interest rates increase, our interest expense would also increase, lowering our net income and decreasing our cash flow. we may use our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and our c$50 million canadian revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available, until maturity in july 2020 and march 2019, respectively. at december 31, 2016, we had $426 million of outstanding borrowings and $789 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the $2.25 billion revolving credit facility, leaving unused and available credit capacity of $1,035 million, and we had no outstanding borrowings under the canadian revolving credit facility. in the event of a default under our credit facilities, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. 26 table of contents index to financial statements additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a ghg. there are a number of legislative and regulatory efforts at the state, regional and federal levels to curtail the emission of ghgs to ameliorate the effect of climate change. should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it could impose costs on our operations that might not be offset by the revenue increases associated with our lower-carbon service options, the materiality of which we cannot predict. in 2010, the epa published a prevention of significant deterioration and title v greenhouse gas tailoring rule, which expanded the epa federal air permitting authority to include the six ghgs. the rule sets new thresholds for ghg emissions that define when clean air act permits are required. the current requirements of these rules have not significantly affected our operations or cash flows, due to the tailored thresholds and exclusions of certain emissions from regulation. however, if certain changes to these regulations were enacted, such as lowering the thresholds or the inclusion of biogenic emissions, then the amendments could have an adverse effect on our operating costs. the seasonal nature of our business, severe weather events and event driven special projects cause our results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. service disruptions caused by severe storms, extended periods of inclement weather or climate extremes resulting from climate change can significantly affect the operating results of the affected areas. on the other hand, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes that most often impact our operations in the southern and eastern united states, can increase our revenues in the areas affected. while weather-related and other unusual event occurrences can boost revenues through additional work for a limited time, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue can generate earnings at comparatively lower margins. for these and other reasons, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. our stock price may be negatively impacted by interim variations in our results. we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and our reputation could be adversely affected, if our businesses, or third parties with whom we have a relationship, were to fail to comply with united states or foreign laws or regulations. some of our projects and new business may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically been prevalent. it is our policy to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate, and we monitor our local partners compliance with such laws as well. our reputation may be adversely affected if we were reported to be associated with corrupt practices or if we or our local partners failed to comply with such laws. such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. additionally, violations of such laws could subject us to significant fines and penalties. 27 table of contents index to financial statements currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. from time to time we are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. we are also party to civil litigation. as a large company with operations across the united states and canada, we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes and claims arising in the ordinary course of our business. actions that have been filed against us, and that may be filed against us in the future, include personal injury, property damage, commercial, customer, and employment-related claims, including purported state and national class action lawsuits related to: alleged environmental contamination, including releases of hazardous materials and odors; sales and marketing practices, customer service agreements, prices and fees; and federal and state wage and hour and other laws. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. we may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported financial position or operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. the company had no derivatives outstanding at december 31, 2016. interest rate exposure our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities. as of december 31, 2016, we had $9.4 billion of long-term debt, excluding the impacts of accounting for fair value adjustments attributable to terminated interest rate derivatives, discounts, premiums and debt issuance costs. we have $1.6 billion of debt that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months. our variable-rate debt obligations include (i) $491 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process; (ii) $473 million of tax- exempt bonds with term interest rate periods scheduled to expire within the next 12 months; (iii) $426 million of borrowings outstanding under our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and (iv) $239 million of borrowings outstanding under our canadian term loan. we currently estimate that a 100-basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2017 interest expense by approximately $15 million. our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed-rate tax-exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds 12 months. the fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change. we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive debt instruments. this analysis is inherently limited because it reflects a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. an instantaneous, 100-basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our debt by approximately $595 million at december 31, 2016. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have cash and cash equivalent balances, as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. these assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in u.s. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. because of the short-term maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. commodity price exposure in the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including old corrugated cardboard, old newsprint and plastics; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets in which we operate. we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues may also increase or decrease. currency rate exposure we have operations in canada as well as certain support functions in india and investments in hong kong. where significant, we have quantified and described the impact of foreign currency translation on components of income, including operating revenue and operating costs. however, the impact of foreign currency has not materially affected our results of operations. historically, we hedged a portion of our foreign currency risk using currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany canadian-currency denominated debt transactions. in march 2016, we terminated our cross-currency swaps. at termination, we received $67 million in cash for the fair value of the hedged position and reported this amount as a component of net cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows. the realized loss from the termination did not materially affect our results of operations. refer to notes 8 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our foreign currency derivatives and translation. 68 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors 14 risk factors the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. other recent final and proposed rules to increase the stringency of certain national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) could affect the cost, timeliness and availability of air permits for new and modified large municipal solid waste landfills and landfill gas-to-energy facilities. however, the epa under the current administration is reviewing the implementation of the new naaqs and considering revisions to make the regulations less stringent. while we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of potential revisions to naaqs, we do not believe that the ultimate requirements will have a material adverse impact on our business as a whole. we continue to anticipate the needs of our customers, which includes investing in and developing ever-more-advanced recycling and reuse technologies. potential climate change, ghg regulatory, and corporate sustainability initiatives have influenced our business strategy to provide low-carbon services to our customers, and we increasingly view our ability to offer lower carbon services as a key component of our business growth. if the u.s. were to impose a carbon tax or other form of ghg regulation increasing demand for low-carbon service offerings in the future, the services we are developing will be increasingly valuable. in 2011, the epa published the non-hazardous secondary materials ( nhsm ) rule, which provides the standards and procedures for identifying whether nhsm are solid waste under rcra when used as fuels or ingredients in combustion units. the epa also published new source performance standards and emission guidelines for commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units ( ciswi ) and maximum achievable control technology standards for commercial and industrial boilers ( boiler mact ). the epa published clarifications and amendments to the three rules in 2013 and legal challenges to the rules were subsequently filed by both industry and environmental groups. in may 2015, the court of appeals for the d.c. circuit upheld the nhsm rule together with the amendments to the rule that support some of our projects in which we are seeking to convert biomass or other secondary materials into products, fuels or energy. through rulings in july and december of 2016 related to the ciswi and boiler mact challenges, the court vacated certain elements of those rules while remanding other aspects of the rules to the epa for reconsideration. we believe the ultimate rules and administrative determinations will not have a material adverse impact on our business as a whole and are more likely to facilitate our efforts to reuse or recover energy value from secondary material streams. in december 2014, the epa issued a final rule regulating the disposal and beneficial use of coal combustion residuals ( ccr ). this codification of the ccr rule provides utilities with a stable regulatory regime and encourages beneficial use of ccr in encapsulated uses (e.g., used in cement or wallboard), and use according to 11 table of contents established industry standards (e.g., application of sludge for agricultural enrichment). the epa also deemed disposal and beneficial use of ccr at permitted municipal solid waste landfills exempt from the new regulations because the rcra subtitle d standards applicable at municipal solid waste landfills provide at least equivalent protection. the new standards are consistent with our approach to handling ccr at our sites currently, and the new standards have provided a growth opportunity for the company. states may impose standards more stringent than the federal program, and under the 2016 water infrastructure improvements for the nation act, may receive approval to run permitting programs for ccr in their states. in 2017, the epa provided guidance to facilitate approval of state programs. state, provincial and local regulations there are also various state or provincial and local regulations that affect our operations. each state and province in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. states and provinces have also adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. our landfill operations are affected by the increasing preference for alternatives to landfill disposal. many state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, food waste and electronics at landfills. the number of state and local governments with recycling requirements and disposal bans continues to grow, while the logistics and economics of recycling the items remain challenging. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. while laws that overtly discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory have been upheld in court. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. in 1994, the u.s. supreme court ruled that a flow control ordinance that gave preference to a local facility that was privately owned was unconstitutional, but in 2007, the court ruled that an ordinance directing waste to a facility owned by the local government was constitutional. the u.s. congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control, or courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation, could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. additionally, regulations establishing extended producer responsibility ( epr ) are being considered or implemented in many places around the world, including in the u.s. and canada. epr regulations are designed to place either partial or total responsibility on producers to fund the post-use life cycle of the products they create. along with the funding responsibility, producers may be required to take over management of local recycling programs by taking back their products from end users or managing the collection operations and recycling processing infrastructure. there is no federal law establishing epr in the u.s. or canada; however, state, provincial and local governments could take, and in some cases have taken, steps to implement epr regulations. if wide-ranging epr regulations were adopted, they could have a fundamental impact on the waste, recycling and other streams we manage and how we operate our business, including contract terms and pricing. many states, provinces and local jurisdictions have enacted fitness laws that allow the agencies that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the applicant or permit holder compliance history. some states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further and consider the compliance history of the parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant or permit holder. these laws authorize the agencies to make determinations of an applicant or permit holder fitness to be awarded a contract to operate, and to deny or revoke a contract or permit because of unfitness, unless there is a showing that the applicant or permit holder has been rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies and procedures put in place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while fitness laws can present potential increased costs and barriers to 12 table of contents entry into market areas, these laws have not, and are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our business as a whole. foreign import and export regulations enforcement or implementation of foreign and domestic regulations can affect our ability to export products. a significant portion of the fiber that we market is shipped to export markets across the globe, particularly china. in 2013, the chinese government began to strictly enforce regulations that establish limits on moisture and non-conforming materials that may be contained in imported recycled paper and plastics and restrict the import of certain other plastic recyclables. in 2017, the chinese government announced a ban on certain materials, including mixed waste paper and mixed plastics, effective january 1, 2018, as well as extremely restrictive quality requirements effective march 1, 2018 that will be difficult for the industry to achieve. single stream mrfs process a wide range of commingled materials and tend to receive a higher percentage of non-recyclables, which results in increased processing and residual disposal costs to achieve quality standards. also in 2017, the chinese government began to limit the flow of material into the country by restricting the issuance of required import licenses. the use of restrictions on import licenses to restrict flow into china is expected to continue in 2018. additionally, increased container weight tracking and port fees have driven up operating costs in the recycling industry and have resulted in increased price volatility. the current u.s. presidential administration has called for substantial changes to foreign trade policy and has raised the possibility of imposing significant increases in tariffs on international trade. restrictions and tariffs on exporting would have a significant impact on our recycling operations. in recent years, we have been revising our service agreements to address increased costs and are working with stakeholders to educate the public on the need to recycle properly. we are investing time and labor and working with customers to help improve quality. however, there is uncertainty about the industry ability to adapt to the chinese government regulations. we have been actively working to identify alternative markets for recycled commodities, but it is possible there may not be sufficient demand for all of the material we produce, resulting in price decreases and volatility. industry trade organizations and government agencies are engaged in discussions to mitigate long-term impacts to recycling programs and the industry as a whole. hydraulic fracturing regulation our ees organization provides specialized environmental management and disposal services for oil and gas exploration and production operations. there remains heightened attention from the public, some states and the epa on the alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to impact drinking water supplies. there is also heightened federal regulatory focus on emissions of methane that occur during drilling and transportation of natural gas with regulations promulgated in 2012 and 2015, as well as state attention to protective disposal of drilling residuals. increased regulation of hydraulic fracturing and new rules regarding the treatment and disposal of wastes associated with exploration and production operations could increase our costs to provide oilfield services and reduce our margins and revenue from such services. on the other hand, we believe the size, capital structure, regulatory sophistication and established reliability of our company provide us with an advantage in providing services that must comply with any complex regulatory regime that may govern providing oilfield waste services. emissions from natural gas fueling and infrastructure we operate a large fleet of natural gas vehicles, and we plan to continue to invest in these assets for our collection fleet. as of december 31, 2017, we were operating 6,525 natural gas trucks and 106 natural gas fueling facilities, of which 101 are in the u.s. and five are in canadian provinces; 29 of these fueling stations also serve the public or pre-approved third parties. concerns have been raised about the potential for emissions from the fueling stations and infrastructure that serve natural gas-fueled vehicles. we have partnered with the environmental organization environmental defense fund, as well as other heavy-duty equipment users and experts, on an emissions study to be made available to policy makers. we anticipate that this comprehensive study of emissions from our heavy-duty fleet may ultimately help inform regulations that will affect equipment manufacturers and will define operating procedures across the industry. additional regulation of, or restrictions on, natural gas fueling infrastructure or reductions in associated tax 13 table of contents incentives could increase our operating costs. we are not yet able to evaluate potential operating changes or costs associated with such regulations, but we do not anticipate that such regulations would have a material adverse impact on our business or our future investment in natural gas vehicles. federal, state and local climate change initiatives in light of regulatory and business developments related to concerns about climate change, we have identified a strategic business opportunity to provide our public and private sector customers with sustainable solutions to reduce their ghg emissions. as part of our on-going marketing evaluations, we assess customer demand for and opportunities to develop waste services offering verifiable carbon reductions, such as waste reduction, increased recycling, and conversion of landfill gas and discarded materials into electricity and fuel. we use carbon life cycle tools in evaluating potential new services and in establishing the value proposition that makes us attractive as an environmental service provider. we are active in support of public policies that encourage development and use of lower carbon energy and waste services that lower users carbon footprints. we understand the importance of broad stakeholder engagement in these endeavors, and actively seek opportunities for public policy discussion on more sustainable materials management practices. in addition, we work with stakeholders at the federal and state level in support of legislation that encourages production and use of renewable, low-carbon fuels and electricity. despite the announcement that the u.s. will withdraw from the paris climate accords, we have seen no reduction in customer demand for services aligned with their ghg reduction goals and strategies. we continue to assess the physical risks to company operations from the effects of severe weather events and use risk mitigation planning to increase our resiliency in the face of such events. we are investing in infrastructure to withstand more severe storm events, which may afford us a competitive advantage and reinforce our reputation as a reliable service provider through continued service in the aftermath of such events. item 1a. risk factors. in an effort to keep our stockholders and the public informed about our business, we may make forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. forward-looking statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, forecast, project, estimate, intend and words of a similar nature and generally include statements containing: projections about accounting and finances; plans and objectives for the future; projections or estimates about assumptions relating to our performance; or our opinions, views or beliefs about the effects of current or future events, circumstances or performance. you should view these statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. they are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. all aspects of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2018 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the company. 14 table of contents the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. in north america, the industry consists primarily of three national waste management companies and regional and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources, including companies that specialize in certain discrete areas of waste management, operators of alternative disposal facilities and companies that seek to use parts of the waste stream as feedstock for renewable energy and other by-products. in recent years, the industry has seen some additional consolidation, though the industry remains intensely competitive. the industry national and regional competitors are often significant competitors in local markets. we compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations and waste brokers that rely upon haulers in local markets to address customer needs. these counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, some of our competitors may have lower financial expectations, allowing them to reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively-bid contracts, including large national accounts and exclusive franchise arrangements with municipalities. when this happens, we may lose customers and be unable to execute our pricing strategy, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business. if we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected. our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. implementation of our strategy will require effective management of our operational, financial and human resources and will place significant demands on those resources. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations overview for more information on our business strategy. there are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following: our employees, customers or investors may not embrace and support our strategy. we may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to manage our strategy effectively. a key element of our strategy is yield management through focus on price leadership, which has presented challenges to keep existing business and win new business at reasonable returns. we have also continued our environmental fee, fuel surcharge and regulatory recovery fee to offset costs. the loss of volumes as a result of price increases and our unwillingness to pursue lower margin volumes may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. additionally, we have in the past and continue to face purported class action lawsuits related to our customer service agreements, prices and fees. we may be unsuccessful in implementing improvements to operational efficiency and such efforts may not yield the intended result. we may not be able to maintain cost savings achieved through restructuring efforts. strategic decisions with respect to our asset portfolio may result in impairments to our assets. see item 1a. risk factors we may record material charges against our earnings due to impairments to our assets . our ability to make strategic acquisitions depends on our ability to identify desirable acquisition targets, negotiate advantageous transactions despite competition for such opportunities, fund such acquisitions on favorable terms, obtain regulatory approvals and realize the benefits we expect from those transactions. acquisitions, investments and/or new service offerings may not increase our earnings in the timeframe anticipated, or at all, due to difficulties operating in new markets or providing new service offerings, failure of emerging technologies to perform as expected, failure to operate within budget, integration issues, or regulatory issues, among others. 15 table of contents integration of acquisitions and/or new services offerings could increase our exposure to the risk of inadvertent noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. liabilities associated with acquisitions, including ones that may exist only because of past operations of an acquired business, may prove to be more difficult or costly to address than anticipated. execution of our strategy, particularly growth through acquisitions, may cause us to incur substantial additional indebtedness, which may divert capital away from our traditional business operations and other financial plans. we continue to seek to divest underperforming and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of underperforming and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low-margin businesses. in addition to the risks set forth above, implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses and changes in industry trends. we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. if we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business strategy successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. compliance with existing or increased future regulations and/or enforcement of such regulations may restrict or change our operations, increase our operating costs or require us to make additional capital expenditures, and a decrease in regulation may lower barriers to entry for our competitors. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial and local level in the u.s. and canada have a substantial impact on our business, and compliance with such regulations is costly. a large number of complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. among other things, governmental regulations and enforcement actions may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer, recycling or processing facilities or on expanding existing facilities; limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; mandates regarding the management of solid waste, including requirements to recycle, divert or otherwise process certain waste, recycling and other streams; or limitations or restrictions on the recycling, processing or transformation of waste, recycling and other streams. regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. the costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial. we also have significant financial obligations relating to final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation at our existing landfills. we establish accruals for these estimated costs, but we could underestimate such accruals because of the types of waste collected and manner in which it is transported and disposed of, including actions taken in the past by companies we have acquired or third-party landfill operators, among other reasons. environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, requiring our expenditures to materially exceed our current accruals. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. the 16 table of contents permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. the u.s. congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste certain types of flow control, or courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation, could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. additionally, regulations establishing extended producer responsibility ( epr ) are being considered or implemented in many places around the world, including in the u.s. and canada. epr regulations are designed to place either partial or total responsibility on producers to fund the post-use life cycle of the products they create. along with the funding responsibility, producers may be required to take over management of local recycling programs by taking back their products from end users or managing the collection operations and recycling processing infrastructure. there is no federal law establishing epr in the u.s. or canada; however, state, provincial and local governments could, and in some cases have, taken steps to implement epr regulations. if wide-ranging epr regulations were adopted, they could have a fundamental impact on the waste streams we manage and how we operate our business, including contract terms and pricing. a significant reduction in the waste, recycling and other streams we manage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in recent years, we perceived an increase in both the amount of government regulation and the number of enforcement actions being brought by regulatory entities against operations in the waste services industry. the current u.s. presidential administration has called for substantial changes to foreign trade policy and has generally appeared to be in favor of reducing regulation, including environmental regulation. we cannot predict what impact the current administration will have on the political and regulatory environment in the u.s., the timing of any such changes, or the impact of any such changes on our business. reduction of regulation may have a favorable impact on our operating costs, but the extensive environmental regulation applicable to landfills is a substantial barrier to entry that benefits our company. moreover, the risk reduction provided by stringent regulation is valuable to our customers and the communities we serve. it is likely that some policies adopted by the current administration will benefit us and others will negatively affect us. our revenues, earnings and cash flows will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices, and commodity prices for recyclable materials are particularly susceptible to volatility based on regulations that affect our ability to export products. our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and plastics, which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. the majority of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard and old newsprint, and a significant portion of the fiber that we market is shipped to export markets across the globe, particularly china. in 2013, the chinese government began to strictly enforce regulations that establish limits on moisture and non-conforming materials that may be contained in imported recycled paper and plastics and restrict the import of certain other plastic recyclables. in 2017, the chinese government announced a ban on certain materials, including mixed waste paper and mixed plastics, effective january 1, 2018, as well as extremely restrictive quality requirements effective march 1, 2018 that will be difficult for the industry to achieve. single stream mrfs process a wide range of commingled materials and tend to receive a higher percentage of non-recyclables, which results in increased processing and residual disposal costs to achieve quality standards. also in 2017, the chinese government began to limit the flow of material into the country by restricting the issuance of required import licenses. the use of restrictions on import licenses to restrict flow into china is expected to continue in 2018. there is uncertainty about the industry ability to adapt to the chinese government regulations. we have been actively working to identify alternative markets for recycled commodities, but it is possible there may not be sufficient demand for all of the material we produce, resulting in price decreases and increased volatility. the fluctuations in the market prices or demand for these commodities can affect our operating income and cash flows positively, as we 17 table of contents experienced in 2017 and 2016, or negatively, as we experienced in 2015. as we have increased the size of our recycling operations, we have also increased our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. the increase in market prices in 2017 and 2016 for commodities resulted in increases in revenue of $237 million and $51 million, respectively. the decline in market prices in 2015 for commodities resulted in a decrease in revenue of $138 million. additionally, under some agreements, our recycling operations are required to pay rebates to suppliers. in some cases, if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for recycling commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase. in other circumstances, the rebates may be subject to a floor, such that as market prices decrease, any expected profit margins on materials subject to the rebate floor are reduced or eliminated. as we work to revise service agreements to mitigate the impact of commodity price fluctuations, the potential increase in the cost for recycling services may make it more difficult for us to win bids and may slow the growth of recycling overall. if the chinese government regulations, or other similar regulations or initiatives, such as increased container weight tracking and port fees or restrictions and tariffs on exporting, result in reduced demand or increased operating costs, such regulations, initiatives, restrictions and tariffs could have a material adverse effect on the profitability of our recycling operations. fluctuation in energy prices also affects our business, including recycling of plastics manufactured from petroleum products. significant variations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy-related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery operations can result in a corresponding significant impact to our revenue from yield from such operations. additionally, we provide specialized disposal services for oil and gas exploration and production operations through our ees organization. demand for these services decreases when drilling activity slows due to depressed oil and gas prices, such as the low prices throughout the last few years. any of the commodity prices to which we are subject may fluctuate substantially and without notice in the future. changes in regulations applicable to oil and gas drilling and production could adversely affect our ees organization. ees organization demand may also be adversely affected if drilling activity slows due to industry conditions beyond our control, in addition to changes in oil and gas prices. changes in laws or government regulations regarding ghg emissions from oil and gas operations and/or hydraulic fracturing could increase our customers costs of doing business and reduce oil and gas exploration and production by customers. there remains heightened attention from the public, some states and the epa to the alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing to impact drinking water supplies. there is also heightened federal regulatory focus on emissions of methane that occur during drilling and transportation of natural gas with regulations promulgated in 2012 and 2015 as well as state attention to protective disposal of drilling residuals. increased regulation of oil and gas exploration and production and new rules regarding the treatment and disposal of wastes associated with exploration and production operations could increase our costs to provide oilfield services and reduce our margins and revenue from such services. increasing customer preference for alternatives to landfill disposal could reduce our landfill volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. our customers are increasingly diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. in addition, many state and local governments mandate diversion, recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, food waste and electronics at landfills. where such organic waste is not banned from the landfill, some large customers such as grocery stores and restaurants are choosing to divert their organic waste from landfills. zero-waste goals (sending no waste to the landfill) have been set by many of north america largest companies. although such mandates and initiatives help to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to our landfills which may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. our landfills currently provide our highest income from operations margins. if we are not successful in expanding our service offerings and growing lines of businesses to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, then our revenues and operating results may decline. additionally, despite the development of new service offerings and lines of business, it is possible that our revenues and our income from operations margins could be negatively affected due to disposal alternatives. 18 table of contents developments in technology could trigger a fundamental change in the waste management industry, as waste streams are increasingly viewed as a resource, which may adversely impact volumes at our landfills and our profitability. our company and others have recognized the value of the traditional waste stream as a potential resource. research and development activities are on-going to provide disposal alternatives that maximize the value of waste, including using waste as a source for renewable energy and other valuable by-products. we and many other companies are investing in these technologies. it is possible that such investments and technological advancements may reduce the cost of waste disposal or the value of landfill gas recovery to a level below our costs and may reduce the demand for landfill space. as a result, our revenues and margins could be adversely affected due to advancements in disposal alternatives. if we are not able to develop new service offerings and protect intellectual property, or if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology, our financial results may suffer. our existing and proposed service offerings to customers may require that we invest in, develop or license, and protect new technologies. research and development of new technologies and investment in emerging technologies often requires significant spending that may divert capital investment away from our traditional business operations. we may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services or emerging technologies in which we have invested, which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market. further, protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of intellectual property is difficult, and any inability to obtain or protect new technologies could impact our services to customers and development of new revenue sources. our company and others are increasingly focusing on new technologies that provide alternatives to traditional disposal and maximize the resource value of waste. if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology that provides a revolutionary change in traditional waste management, or if we have inferior intellectual property to our competitors, our financial results may suffer. our business depends on our reputation and the value of our brand. we believe we have developed a reputation for high-quality service, reliability and social and environmental responsibility, and we believe our brand symbolizes these attributes. the waste management brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, as well as contractual obligations that may result in significant liabilities. there is risk of incurring significant environmental liabilities in the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of waste materials. under applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. under current law, we could also be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved. this risk is of particular concern as we execute our growth strategy, partially though acquisitions, because we may be unsuccessful in identifying and assessing potential liabilities during our due diligence investigations. further, the counterparties in such transactions may be unable to perform their indemnification obligations owed to us. additionally, we could be liable if we arrange for the transportation, disposal or treatment of hazardous substances that cause environmental contamination, or if a predecessor owner made such arrangements and, under applicable law, we are treated as a successor to the prior owner. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 table of contents in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, we are currently, and we may in the future, become involved in legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and local communities, citizen groups, landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. further, we often enter into agreements with landowners imposing obligations on us to meet certain regulatory or contractual conditions upon site closure or upon termination of the agreements. compliance with these agreements inherently involves subjective determinations and may result in disputes, including litigation. costs to remediate or restore the condition of closed sites may be significant. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our revenues and our income from operations margins. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. a weak economy generally results in decreased consumer spending and decreases in volumes of waste generated, which decreases our revenues. a weak market for consumer goods can significantly decrease demand by paper mills for recycled corrugated cardboard used in packaging; such decrease in demand can negatively impact commodity prices and our operating income and cash flows. in addition, we have a relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to quickly adjust to match shifting volume levels. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may limit the number or amount of services requested by customers. economic conditions may also limit our ability to implement our pricing strategy. for example, many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index, and our costs may increase in excess of the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. additionally, a prolonged economic downturn in china could significantly impact prices for post-consumer fiber and metals processed by our recycling operations. some of our customers, including governmental entities, have suffered financial difficulties affecting their credit risk, which could negatively impact our operating results. we provide service to a number of governmental entities and municipalities, some of which have suffered significant financial difficulties in recent years, due in part to reduced tax revenue and/or high cost structures. some of these entities could be unable to pay amounts owed to us or renew contracts with us at previous or increased rates. many non-governmental customers have also suffered serious financial difficulties, including bankruptcy in some cases. purchasers of our recycling commodities can be particularly vulnerable to financial difficulties in times of commodity price volatility. the inability of our customers to pay us in a timely manner or to pay increased rates, particularly large national accounts, could negatively affect our operating results. in addition, the financial difficulties of municipalities could result in a decline in investors demand for municipal bonds and a correlating increase in interest rates. as of december 31, 2017, we had $831 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that expire within the next 12 months and $328 million of variable-rate tax-exempt bonds with interest rates reset on either a daily or a weekly basis through a remarketing process, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. if market dynamics resulted in repricing of our tax-exempt bonds at significantly higher interest rates, we would incur increased interest expenses that may negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. 20 table of contents we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. our ability to meet our financial and operating objectives depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain the permits necessary to operate landfill sites. permits to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills and transfer stations, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities or expanding existing facilities. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant shortages in diesel fuel supply or increases in diesel fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. the price and supply of diesel fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. we need diesel fuel to run a significant portion of our collection and transfer trucks and our equipment used in our landfill operations. supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. additionally, if fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses increase and many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. additionally, lawsuits have challenged our fuel and environmental charges included on our invoices. regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, increased operating costs due to higher diesel fuel prices will decrease our income from operations margins. we have an extensive natural gas truck fleet, which makes us partially dependent on the availability of natural gas and fueling infrastructure and vulnerable to natural gas prices. we operate a large fleet of natural gas vehicles, and we plan to continue to invest in these assets for our collection fleet. however, natural gas fueling infrastructure is not yet broadly available in north america; as a result, we have constructed and operate natural gas fueling stations, some of which also serve the public or pre-approved third parties. it will remain necessary for us to invest capital in fueling infrastructure in order to power our natural gas fleet. concerns have been raised about the potential for emissions from fueling infrastructure that serve natural gas-fueled vehicles. new regulation of, or restrictions on, natural gas fueling infrastructure or reductions in associated tax incentives could increase our operating costs. additionally, fluctuations in the price and supply of natural gas could substantially increase our operating expenses, and a reduction in the existing cost differential between natural gas and diesel fuel could materially reduce the benefits we anticipate from our investment in natural gas vehicles. further, our fuel surcharge program is currently indexed to diesel fuel prices, and price fluctuations for natural gas may not effectively be recovered by this program. we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with the operation of our current information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, as well as the development and deployment of new information technology systems, that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. 21 table of contents additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. a cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers and expose us to litigation risk. we use computers in substantially all aspects of our business operations. we also use mobile devices, social networking and other online activities to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers credit card information. further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. additionally, while we have implemented measures to prevent security breaches and cyber incidents, our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be entirely effective. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential litigation and liability and competitive disadvantage. our operating expenses could increase as a result of labor unions organizing or changes in regulations related to labor unions. labor unions continually attempt to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees are currently represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with these unions. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, would enhance organized labor leverage to obtain higher than expected wage and benefits costs and resist the introduction of new technology and other initiatives, which can result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, our operating expenses could increase significantly as a result of work stoppages, including strikes. any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could face significant liabilities for withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans. we are a participating employer in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer defined benefit pension plans ( multiemployer pension plans ) for employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the event of our withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan, we may incur expenses associated with our obligations for unfunded vested benefits at the time of the withdrawal. depending on various factors, future withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on results of operations or cash flows for a particular reporting period. we have previously withdrawn several employee bargaining units from underfunded multiemployer pension plans, and we recognized related expenses of $12 million and $51 million in 2017 and 2015, respectively. in 2016, we did not recognize any charges for the withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans. see notes 9 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for more information related to our participation in multiemployer pension plans. our business is subject to operational and safety risks, including the risk of personal injury to employees and others. providing environmental and waste management services, including constructing and operating landfills, involves risks such as truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures. additionally, we closely monitor and manage landfills to minimize the risk of waste mass instability, releases of hazardous materials, and odors that could be triggered by weather or natural disasters. there may also be risks presented by the potential for subsurface heat reactions causing 22 table of contents elevated landfill temperatures and increased production of leachate, landfill gas and odors. we also build and operate natural gas fueling stations, some of which also serve the public or third parties. operation of fueling stations and landfill gas collection and control systems involves additional risks of fire and explosion. any of these risks could potentially result in injury or death of employees and others, a need to shut down or reduce operation of facilities, increased operating expense and exposure to liability for pollution and other environmental damage, and property damage or destruction. while we seek to minimize our exposure to such risks through comprehensive training, compliance and response and recovery programs, as well as vehicle and equipment maintenance programs, if we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of any applicable insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. any such incidents could also tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. additionally, a major operational failure, even if suffered by a competitor, may bring enhanced scrutiny and regulation of our industry, with a corresponding increase in operating expense. we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide and, therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily-required levels. we face the risk of incurring additional costs for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of other insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby enabling us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. the inability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect of significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may subject us to additional risks. to the extent our insurers are unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims are more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to variable-rate tax-exempt debt, final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, fund trust and escrow accounts or rely upon wm financial guarantees. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. our financial position, which can be negatively affected by asset impairments, our credit profile and general economic factors, may adversely affect the cost of our current financial assurance instruments, and changes in regulations may impose stricter requirements on the types of financial assurance that will be accepted. additionally, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. it is possible that we could be forced to deposit cash to collateralize our obligations. other forms of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, and any requirements to use cash to support our obligations would negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. we may record material charges against our earnings due to impairments to our assets. in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ), we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. events that could, in some circumstances, lead to an impairment include, but are not limited to, shutting down a facility or operation or abandoning a development project or the denial of an expansion permit. additionally, declining waste volumes and development of, and customer preference for, alternatives to traditional waste disposal could warrant asset impairments. if we determine an asset or expansion project is impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such asset or project reduced by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, which is required to be assessed for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may be required to incur charges against earnings if such impairment tests indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 23 table of contents our capital requirements and our business strategy could increase our expenses, cause us to change our growth and development plans, or result in an inability to maintain our desired credit profile. if economic conditions or other risks and uncertainties cause a significant reduction in our cash flows from operations, we may reduce or suspend capital expenditures, growth and acquisition activity, implementation of our business strategy, dividend declarations or share repurchases. we may choose to incur indebtedness to pay for these activities, although our access to capital markets is not assured and we may not be able to incur indebtedness at a cost that is consistent with current borrowing rates. we also may need to incur indebtedness to refinance scheduled debt maturities, and it is possible that the cost of financing could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. further, our ability to execute our financial strategy and our ability to incur indebtedness is somewhat dependent upon our ability to maintain investment grade credit ratings on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon our credit profile, as well as a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including methodologies established and interpreted by third-party rating agencies. if we were unable to maintain our investment grade credit ratings in the future, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected. additionally, we have $1.8 billion of debt as of december 31, 2017 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months because of the combined impact of our tax-exempt bonds and outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program and our canadian term loan. if interest rates increase, our interest expense would also increase, lowering our net income and decreasing our cash flow. we may use our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and our c$50 million canadian revolving credit facility ( canadian revolving credit facility ) to meet our cash needs, to the extent available, until maturity in july 2020 and march 2019, respectively. as of december 31, 2017, we had $642 million of letters of credit issued and $515 million of outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program both supported by our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility, leaving unused and available credit capacity of $1,093 million, and we had no outstanding borrowings under both our $2.25 billion revolving credit facility and canadian revolving credit facility. in the event of a default under our credit facilities, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a ghg. there are a number of legislative and regulatory efforts at the state, regional and federal levels to curtail the emission of ghgs to ameliorate the effect of climate change. should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it could impose costs on our operations that might not be offset by the revenue increases associated with our lower-carbon service options, the materiality of which we cannot predict. in 2010, the epa published a prevention of significant deterioration and title v ghg tailoring rule, which expanded the epa federal air permitting authority to include the six ghgs. the rule sets new thresholds for ghg emissions that define when clean air act permits are required. the current requirements of these rules have not significantly affected our operations or cash flows, due to the tailored thresholds and exclusions of certain emissions from regulation. however, if certain changes to these regulations were enacted, such as lowering the thresholds or the inclusion of biogenic emissions, then the amendments could have an adverse effect on our operating costs. the seasonal nature of our business, severe weather events and event driven special projects cause our results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher construction and demolition waste volumes. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. 24 table of contents service disruptions caused by severe storms, extended periods of inclement weather or climate extremes resulting from climate change can significantly affect the operating results of the areas affected. on the other hand, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes that most often impact our operations in the southern and eastern u.s., can increase our revenues in the areas affected. while weather-related and other event driven special projects can boost revenues through additional work for a limited time, as a result of significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue can generate earnings at comparatively lower margins. for these and other reasons, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. our stock price may be negatively impacted by interim variations in our results. we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and our reputation could be adversely affected, if our businesses, or third parties with whom we have a relationship, were to fail to comply with u.s. or foreign laws or regulations. some of our projects and new business may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically been prevalent. it is our policy to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate, and we monitor our local partners compliance with such laws as well. our reputation may be adversely affected if we were reported to be associated with corrupt practices or if we or our local partners failed to comply with such laws. such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. additionally, violations of such laws could subject us to significant fines and penalties. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. from time to time we are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. we are also party to civil litigation. as a large company with operations across the u.s. and canada, we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes and claims arising in the ordinary course of our business. actions that have been filed against us, and that may be filed against us in the future, include personal injury, property damage, commercial, customer, and employment-related claims, including purported state and national class action lawsuits related to: alleged environmental contamination, including releases of hazardous materials and odors; sales and marketing practices, customer service agreements, prices and fees; and federal and state wage and hour and other laws. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. we may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported financial position or operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, certain commodity prices and canadian currency rates. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. the company had no derivatives outstanding as of december 31, 2017. interest rate exposure our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities. as of december 31, 2017, we had $9.5 billion of long-term debt, excluding the impacts of accounting for debt issuance costs, discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments attributable to terminated interest rate derivatives. we have $1.8 billion of debt that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months comprised of (i) $831 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods scheduled to expire within the next 12 months; (ii) $515 million of outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program; (iii) $328 million of tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process and (iv) $113 million of outstanding borrowings under our canadian term loan. we currently estimate that a 100 basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2018 interest expense by $15 million. our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed-rate tax-exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds 12 months. the fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change. we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive debt instruments. this analysis is inherently limited because it reflects a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. an instantaneous, 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our debt by approximately $635 million as of december 31, 2017. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk from our cash and cash equivalent balances, as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. these assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in u.s. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. we also invest a portion of our restricted trust and escrow account balances in fixed-income securities, including u.s. treasury securities, u.s. agency securities, municipal securities and mortgage- and asset-backed securities. we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value of these assets due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant as the fair value generally approximates our cost basis. commodity price exposure in the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including old corrugated cardboard, old newsprint and plastics; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets in which we operate. we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues may also increase or decrease. currency rate exposure we have operations in canada as well as certain support functions in india. where significant, we have quantified and described the impact of foreign currency translation on components of income, including operating revenue and operating expenses. however, the impact of foreign currency has not materially affected our results of operations. 60 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. other recent regulatory actions to increase the stringency of certain national ambient air quality standards ( naaqs ) could affect the cost, timeliness and availability of air permits for new and modified large municipal solid waste landfills and landfill gas-to-energy facilities. however, the epa under the current administration is reviewing the implementation of the new naaqs and considering revisions to make the regulations less stringent. while we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of potential revisions to naaqs, we do not believe that the ultimate requirements will have a material adverse impact on our business as a whole. we continue to anticipate the needs of our customers, which includes investing in and developing ever-more-advanced recycling and reuse technologies. potential climate change, ghg regulatory, and corporate sustainability initiatives have influenced our business strategy to provide low-carbon services to our customers, and we increasingly view our ability to offer lower carbon services as a key component of our business growth. if the u.s. were to impose a carbon tax or other form of ghg regulation increasing demand for low-carbon service offerings in the future, the services we are developing will be increasingly valuable. in december 2014, the epa issued a final rule regulating the disposal and beneficial use of coal combustion residuals ( ccr ). this codification of the ccr rule provides utilities with a stable regulatory regime and encourages beneficial use of ccr in encapsulated uses (e.g., used in cement or wallboard), and use according to established industry standards (e.g., application of sludge for agricultural enrichment). the epa also deemed disposal and beneficial use of ccr at permitted municipal solid waste landfills exempt from the new regulations because the rcra subtitle d standards applicable at municipal solid waste landfills provide at least equivalent protection. the new standards are consistent with our approach to handling ccr at our sites currently, and the new standards have provided a growth opportunity for the company. states may impose standards more stringent than the federal program, and under the 2016 water infrastructure improvements for the nation act, may receive approval to run permitting programs for ccr in their states. in 2018, the u.s. court of appeals for the d.c circuit vacated significant portions of the 2014 final rule and remanded the rule to the epa for further revision. because vacated elements of the rule had allowed for the continued operation of unlined ccr ash ponds, the ongoing epa rulemaking may further expand the company opportunity to provide ccr disposal services. in may 2016, the epa established lifetime health advisories for certain per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( pfas ), a group of man-made chemicals that have been manufactured and used globally since the 1940s in products such as textiles, fire suppressants, cookware, packaging and plastics. pfas are typically very persistent in the environment and can be found in water, soil and air. citing concerns about potential adverse human health effects from exposure to pfas, several states have recently enacted new drinking water, surface water and/or groundwater limits for various pfas, and the epa has stated that it will be considering additional regulatory action related to the compounds. we are working with both the epa and state regulatory agencies to maintain compliance with these evolving pfas standards and anticipate additional expense that will result from these efforts state, provincial and local regulations there are also various state or provincial and local regulations that affect our operations. each state and province in which we operate has its own laws and regulations governing solid waste disposal, water and air pollution, and, in most 11 table of contents cases, releases and cleanup of hazardous substances and liabilities for such matters. states and provinces have also adopted regulations governing the design, operation, maintenance and closure of landfills and transfer stations. some counties, municipalities and other local governments have adopted similar laws and regulations. our facilities and operations are likely to be subject to these types of requirements. our landfill operations are affected by the increasing preference for alternatives to landfill disposal. many state and local governments mandate recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, food waste and electronics at landfills. the number of state and local governments with recycling requirements and disposal bans continues to grow, while the logistics and economics of recycling the items remain challenging. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. while laws that overtly discriminate against out-of-state waste have been found to be unconstitutional, some laws that are less overtly discriminatory have been upheld in court. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. in 1994, the u.s. supreme court ruled that a flow control ordinance that gave preference to a local facility that was privately owned was unconstitutional, but in 2007, the court ruled that an ordinance directing waste to a facility owned by the local government was constitutional. the u.s. congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste or certain types of flow control, or courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation, could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. additionally, regulations establishing extended producer responsibility ( epr ) are being considered or implemented in many places around the world, including in the u.s. and canada. epr regulations are designed to place either partial or total responsibility on producers to fund the post-use life cycle of the products they create. along with the funding responsibility, producers may be required to take over management of local recycling programs by taking back their products from end users or managing the collection operations and recycling processing infrastructure. there is no federal law establishing epr in the u.s. or canada; however, state, provincial and local governments could take, and in some cases have taken, steps to implement epr regulations. if wide-ranging epr regulations were adopted, they could have a fundamental impact on the waste, recycling and other streams we manage and how we operate our business, including contract terms and pricing. many states, provinces and local jurisdictions have enacted fitness laws that allow the agencies that have jurisdiction over waste services contracts or permits to deny or revoke these contracts or permits based on the applicant or permit holder compliance history. some states, provinces and local jurisdictions go further and consider the compliance history of the parent, subsidiaries or affiliated companies, in addition to the applicant or permit holder. these laws authorize the agencies to make determinations of an applicant or permit holder fitness to be awarded a contract to operate, and to deny or revoke a contract or permit because of unfitness, unless there is a showing that the applicant or permit holder has been rehabilitated through the adoption of various operating policies and procedures put in place to assure future compliance with applicable laws and regulations. while fitness laws can present potential increased costs and barriers to entry into market areas, these laws have not, and are not expected to have a material adverse impact on our business as a whole. recycling; foreign import and export regulations enforcement or implementation of foreign and domestic regulations can affect our ability to export products. a significant portion of the fiber that we market has been shipped to export markets across the globe, particularly china. in 2013, the chinese government began to strictly enforce regulations that establish limits on moisture and non-conforming materials that may be contained in imported recycled paper and plastics and restrict the import of certain other plastic recyclables. in 2017, the chinese government announced a ban on certain materials, including mixed waste paper and mixed plastics, effective january 1, 2018, as well as extremely restrictive quality requirements effective march 1, 2018 that have been difficult for the industry to achieve. many other markets, both domestic and foreign, have tightened their quality expectations as well. in addition, other countries have limited or restricted the import of certain recyclables. 12 table of contents single stream mrfs process a wide range of commingled materials and tend to receive a higher percentage of non-recyclables, which results in increased processing and residual disposal costs to achieve quality standards. also in 2017, the chinese government began to limit the flow of material into the country by restricting the issuance of required import licenses. the use of restrictions on import licenses to restrict flow into china continued in 2018 and is expected to continue to constrict in 2019. additionally, increased container weight tracking and port fees have driven up operating costs in the recycling industry and have resulted in increased price volatility. the current u.s. presidential administration has made substantial changes to foreign trade policy and imposed increases in tariffs on international trade. in response, china has imposed new tariffs on the import of recyclable commodities, including wastepaper, plastics and metals. such restrictions and tariffs may have a significant impact on our recycling operations. in recent years, we have been revising our service agreements to address increased costs and are working with stakeholders to educate the public on the need to recycle properly. we are investing time and labor and working with customers to help improve quality. however, there is uncertainty about the industry ability to adapt to the stricter quality expectations. we have been actively working to identify alternative markets for recycled commodities, but it is possible there may not be sufficient demand for all of the material we produce, resulting in price decreases and volatility. industry trade organizations and government agencies are engaged in discussions to mitigate long-term impacts to recycling programs and the industry as a whole. with a heightened awareness of the global problems of plastic waste in the environment, an increasing number of cities across the country have passed ordinances banning certain types of plastics from sale or use. bans on single use plastic bags, straws, and polystyrene food containers have been passed in over 350 cities, and a ban on single use plastic bags has been implemented in the state of california. these bans have increased pressure by manufacturers on our recycling facilities to accept a broader array of materials in curbside recycling programs to alleviate public pressures to ban the sale of those materials. however, with no viable end markets for recycling these materials, we and other recyclers are working to educate and remind customers of the need for end market demand and economic viability to support sustainable recycling programs. regulation of oil and gas exploration, production and disposal our ees organization provides specialized environmental management and disposal services for fluids used and wastes generated by customers engaged in oil and gas exploration and production, and these disposal services include use of underground injection wells. there is heightened federal regulatory focus on emissions of methane that occur during drilling and transportation of natural gas, as well as state attention to protective disposal of drilling residuals. there also remains heightened attention from the public, some states and the epa to the alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing that occurs during drilling to impact drinking water supplies. increased regulation of oil and gas exploration and production, including ghg emissions or hydraulic fracturing, could make it more difficult or cost-prohibitive for our ees customers to continue operations, adversely affecting our business. additionally, any new regulations regarding the treatment and disposal of wastes associated with exploration and production operations, including through use of injection wells, could increase our costs to provide oilfield services and reduce our margins and revenue from such services. conversely, any loosening of regulations regarding how such wastes are handled or disposed of could adversely affect our business, as we believe the size, capital structure, regulatory sophistication and established reliability of our company provide us with an advantage in providing services that must comply with any complex regulatory regime that may govern providing oilfield waste services. emissions from natural gas fueling and infrastructure we operate a large fleet of natural gas vehicles, and we plan to continue to invest in these assets for our collection fleet. as of december 31, 2018, we were operating 7,621 natural gas trucks and 123 natural gas fueling facilities; 25 of these fueling stations also serve the public, and in some cases our facilities serve the fleet of pre-approved third parties. concerns have been raised about the potential for emissions from the fueling stations and infrastructure that serve natural gas-fueled vehicles. we have partnered with the environmental organization environmental defense fund, as well as other heavy-duty equipment users and experts, on an emissions study to be made available to policy makers. we anticipate that 13 table of contents this comprehensive study of emissions from our heavy-duty fleet may ultimately help inform regulations that will affect equipment manufacturers and will define operating procedures across the industry. additional regulation of, or restrictions on, natural gas fueling infrastructure or reductions in associated tax incentives could increase our operating costs. we are not yet able to evaluate potential operating changes or costs associated with such regulations, but we do not anticipate that such regulations would have a material adverse impact on our business or our future investment in natural gas vehicles. renewable fuel production we have invested, and continue to invest, in facilities to capture and treat renewable natural gas ( rng ) from the company landfills, and we use rng from landfill biogas in approximately 30% of our natural gas collection vehicles. the energy policy act of 2005 and energy independence and security act of 2007 authorize the renewable fuels standards ( rfs ) program that promotes the production and use of renewable transportation fuels. the company is an epa-registered producer of transportation fuel making compressed and liquefied rng from landfill biogas, which qualifies as a cellulosic biofuel under the rfs program. oil refiners and importers are required through the rfs program to blend specified volumes of various categories of renewable transportation fuels with gasoline or buy credits, referred to as renewable identification numbers ( rins ), from renewable fuel producers. the market value for rins is tied to renewable fuel volumes set by the epa annually, and the final 2019 required volumes for cellulosic biofuel are 45% higher than in 2018. the epa is required to develop a rulemaking this year that will set required volume requirements for a three year period from 2020 through 2022. based on the overall political framework and the upcoming rulemakings, we anticipate a stable market for the company rins . federal, state and local climate change initiatives; sustainability in light of regulatory and business developments related to concerns about climate change, we have identified a strategic business opportunity to provide our public and private sector customers with sustainable solutions to reduce their ghg emissions. as part of our on-going marketing evaluations, we assess customer demand for and opportunities to develop waste services offering verifiable carbon reductions, such as waste reduction, increased recycling, and conversion of landfill gas and discarded materials into electricity and fuel. we use carbon life cycle tools in evaluating potential new services and in establishing the value proposition that makes us attractive as an environmental service provider. we are active in support of public policies that encourage development and use of lower carbon energy and waste services that lower users carbon footprints. we understand the importance of broad stakeholder engagement in these endeavors, and actively seek opportunities for public policy discussion on more sustainable materials management practices. in addition, we work with stakeholders at the federal and state level in support of legislation that encourages production and use of renewable, low-carbon fuels and electricity. despite the announcement that the u.s. will withdraw from the paris climate accords, we have seen no reduction in customer demand for services aligned with their ghg reduction goals and strategies. moreover, we have seen initiatives at the federal, state and local level to enhance the environmental benefits in terms of ghg reductions realized by recycling programs by focusing on reducing contamination in the recyclable material. we continue to assess the physical risks to company operations from the effects of severe weather events and use risk mitigation planning to increase our resiliency in the face of such events. we are investing in infrastructure to withstand more severe storm events, which may afford us a competitive advantage and reinforce our reputation as a reliable service provider through continued service in the aftermath of such events. consistent with our company long-standing commitment to corporate sustainability and environmental stewardship, we have published our 2018 sustainability report, driving change, which details the ghg emissions reductions we have facilitated to date and our determination to expand these reductions in the future, as well as our commitment to help make the communities in which we live and work safe, resilient and sustainable. the information in this report can be found at our company website but does not constitute a part of this form 10-k. the company actively participates in a number of sustainability reporting programs and frameworks, including the dow jones sustainability index, where we are sector leader for commercial services, the cdp, where we are among a list companies, and the sustainability accounting standards board, on which we serve as a member of the board advisory council. 14 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. in an effort to keep our stockholders and the public informed about our business, we may make forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements usually relate to future events and anticipated revenues, earnings, cash flows or other aspects of our operations or operating results. forward-looking statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, forecast, project, estimate, intend and words of a similar nature and generally include statements containing: projections about accounting and finances; plans and objectives for the future; projections or estimates about assumptions relating to our performance; or our opinions, views or beliefs about the effects of current or future events, circumstances or performance. you should view these statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. they are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. all aspects of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2019 and beyond and that could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the company. the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations and regional and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources. the industry also includes companies that specialize in certain discrete areas of waste management, operators of alternative disposal facilities, companies that seek to use parts of the waste stream as feedstock for renewable energy and other by-products, and waste brokers that rely upon haulers in local markets to address customer needs. in recent years, the industry has seen some additional consolidation, though the industry remains intensely competitive. counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, some of our competitors may have lower financial expectations, allowing them to reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively-bid contracts, including large national accounts and exclusive franchise arrangements with municipalities. when this happens, we may lose customers and be unable to execute our pricing strategy, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business. if we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected. our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. implementation of our strategy will require effective management of our operational, financial and human resources and will place significant demands on those resources. see item 1. business for more information on our business strategy. there are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following: our employees, customers or investors may not embrace and support our strategy. 15 table of contents we may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to manage our strategy effectively. a key element of our strategy is yield management through focus on price leadership, which has presented challenges to keep existing business and win new business at reasonable returns. we have also continued our environmental fee, fuel surcharge and regulatory recovery fee to offset costs. the loss of volumes as a result of price increases and our unwillingness to pursue lower margin volumes may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. additionally, we have in the past and continue to face purported class action lawsuits related to our customer service agreements, prices and fees. we may be unsuccessful in implementing improvements to operational efficiency and such efforts may not yield the intended result. we may not be able to maintain cost savings achieved through optimization efforts. strategic decisions with respect to our asset portfolio may result in impairments to our assets. see item 1a. risk factors we may record material charges against our earnings due to impairments to our assets . our ability to make strategic acquisitions depends on our ability to identify desirable acquisition targets, negotiate advantageous transactions despite competition for such opportunities, fund such acquisitions on favorable terms, obtain regulatory approvals and realize the benefits we expect from those transactions. acquisitions, investments and/or new service offerings may not increase our earnings in the timeframe anticipated, or at all, due to difficulties operating in new markets or providing new service offerings, failure of emerging technologies to perform as expected, failure to operate within budget, integration issues, or regulatory issues, among others. integration of acquisitions and/or new services offerings could increase our exposure to the risk of inadvertent noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. liabilities associated with acquisitions, including ones that may exist only because of past operations of an acquired business, may prove to be more difficult or costly to address than anticipated. execution of our strategy, particularly growth through acquisitions, may cause us to incur substantial additional indebtedness, which may divert capital away from our traditional business operations and other financial plans. we continue to seek to divest underperforming and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of underperforming and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low-margin businesses. in addition to the risks set forth above, implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses, subcontractor costs and availability and changes in industry trends. we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. if we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business strategy successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. compliance with existing or increased future regulations and/or enforcement of such regulations may restrict or change our operations, increase our operating costs or require us to make additional capital expenditures, and a decrease in regulation may lower barriers to entry for our competitors. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial and local level in the u.s. and canada have a substantial impact on our business, and compliance with such regulations is costly. many complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. 16 table of contents among other things, governmental regulations and enforcement actions may restrict our operations and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer, recycling or processing facilities or on expanding existing facilities; limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; mandates regarding the management of solid waste, including requirements to recycle, divert or otherwise process certain waste, recycling and other streams; or limitations or restrictions on the recycling, processing or transformation of waste, recycling and other streams. regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills could require us to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. future changes in these regulations may require us to modify, supplement or replace equipment or facilities. the costs of complying with these regulations could be substantial. we also have significant financial obligations relating to final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation at our existing landfills. we establish accruals for these estimated costs, but we could underestimate such accruals because of the types of waste collected and manner in which it is transported and disposed of, including actions taken in the past by companies we have acquired or third-party landfill operators or due to new information about waste types previously collected, among other reasons. environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase capping, closure, post-closure and remediation costs, requiring our expenditures to materially exceed our current accruals. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. the permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and could contain conditions that limit our operations. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. the u.s. congress adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste certain types of flow control, or courts interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation, could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. additionally, regulations establishing extended producer responsibility ( epr ) are being considered or implemented in many places around the world, including in the u.s. and canada. epr regulations are designed to place either partial or total responsibility on producers to fund the post-use life cycle of the products they create. along with the funding responsibility, producers may be required to take over management of local recycling programs by taking back their products from end users or managing the collection operations and recycling processing infrastructure. there is no federal law establishing epr in the u.s. or canada; however, state, provincial and local governments could, and in some cases have, taken steps to implement epr regulations. if wide-ranging epr regulations were adopted, they could have a fundamental impact on the waste streams we manage and how we operate our business, including contract terms and pricing. a significant reduction in the waste, recycling and other streams we manage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in recent years, we perceived an increase in both the amount of government regulation and the number of enforcement actions being brought by regulatory entities against operations in the waste services industry. the current u.s. presidential administration has called for substantial changes to foreign trade policy and has generally appeared to be in favor of reducing regulation, including environmental regulation. we cannot predict what impact the current administration will 17 table of contents have on the political and regulatory environment in the u.s., the timing of any such changes, or the impact of any such changes on our business. reduction of regulation may have a favorable impact on our operating costs, but the extensive environmental regulation applicable to landfills is a substantial barrier to entry that benefits our company. moreover, the risk reduction provided by stringent regulation is valuable to our customers and the communities we serve. it is likely that some policies adopted by the current administration will benefit us and others will negatively affect us. our revenues, earnings and cash flows will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices, and commodity prices for recyclable materials are particularly susceptible to volatility based on regulations and tariffs that affect our ability to export products. our recycling operations process for sale certain recyclable materials, including fibers, aluminum and plastics, which are subject to significant market price fluctuations. most of the recyclables that we process for sale are paper fibers, including old corrugated cardboard and old newsprint, and a significant portion of the fiber that we market has been shipped to export markets across the globe, particularly china. in 2013, the chinese government began to strictly enforce regulations that establish limits on moisture and non-conforming materials that may be contained in imported recycled paper and plastics and restrict the import of certain other plastic recyclables. in 2017, the chinese government announced a ban on certain materials, including mixed waste paper and mixed plastics, effective january 1, 2018, as well as extremely restrictive quality requirements effective march 1, 2018 that have been difficult for the industry to achieve. many other markets, both domestic and foreign, have tightened their quality expectations as well. in addition, other countries have limited or restricted the import of certain recyclables. single stream mrfs process a wide range of commingled materials and tend to receive a higher percentage of non-recyclables, which results in increased processing and residual disposal costs to achieve quality standards. also in 2017, the chinese government began to limit the flow of material into the country by restricting the issuance of required import licenses. the use of restrictions on import licenses to restrict flow into china continued in 2018 and is expected to continue in 2019. the current u.s. presidential administration has made substantial changes to foreign trade policy and imposed increases in tariffs on international trade. in response, china has imposed new tariffs on the import of recyclable commodities, including wastepaper, plastics and metals. if the chinese government regulations and tariffs or initiatives or other similar regulations, tariffs or initiatives result in further reduced demand or increased operating costs, the profitability of our recycling operations may decline. we have been actively working to identify alternative markets for recycled commodities, but it is possible there may not be sufficient demand for all of the material we produce, resulting in price decreases and increased volatility. the fluctuations in the market prices or demand for these commodities can affect our operating income and cash flows negatively, as we experienced in 2018 or positively, as we experienced in 2017 and 2016. as we have increased the size of our recycling operations, we have also increased our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. the decline in market prices in 2018 for recycling commodities resulted in a decrease in revenue of $273 million. the increase in market prices in 2017 and 2016 for recycling commodities resulted in increases in revenue of $237 million and $51 million, respectively. additionally, under some agreements, our recycling operations are required to pay rebates to suppliers. in some cases, if we experience higher revenues based on increased market prices for recycling commodities, the rebates we pay will also increase. in other circumstances, the rebates may be subject to a floor, such that as market prices decrease, any expected profit margins on materials subject to the rebate floor are reduced or eliminated. as we work to revise service agreements to mitigate the impact of commodity price fluctuations, the potential increase in the cost for recycling services may make it more difficult for us to win bids and may slow the growth of recycling overall. fluctuation in energy prices also affects our business, including recycling of plastics manufactured from petroleum products. significant variations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy-related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery operations can result in a corresponding significant impact to our revenue from yield from such operations. additionally, we provide specialized disposal services for oil and gas exploration and production operations through our ees organization. demand for these services decreases when drilling activity slows due to depressed oil and gas prices, such as the low prices throughout the last few years. any of the commodity prices to which we are subject may fluctuate substantially and without notice in the future. 18 table of contents changes in regulations applicable to oil and gas exploration, production and disposal could adversely affect our ees organization. our ees organization provides specialized environmental management and disposal services for fluids used and wastes generated by customers engaged in oil and gas exploration and production, and these disposal services include the use of underground injection wells. demand for these services may be adversely affected if drilling activity slows due to regulation and industry conditions beyond our control, in addition to changes in oil and gas prices. there is heightened federal regulatory focus on emissions of methane that occur during drilling and transportation, as well as state attention to protective disposal of drilling residuals. there also remains heightened attention from the public, some states and the epa to the alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing that occurs during drilling to impact drinking water supplies. increased regulation of oil and gas exploration and production, including ghg emissions or hydraulic fracturing, could make it more difficult or cost-prohibitive for our ees customers to continue operations, adversely affecting our business. additionally, any new regulations regarding the treatment and disposal of wastes associated with exploration and production operations, including through the use of injection wells, could increase our costs to provide oilfield services and reduce our margins and revenue from such services. conversely, any loosening of regulations regarding how such wastes are handled or disposed of could adversely impact demand for our ees services. changes to the regulatory framework related to renewable fuel standards could affect our financial performance in that sector as a renewable fuel producer. the company acts as a renewable fuel producer in the rfs program enacted by congress under the energy policy act and energy independence and security act. oil refiners and importers are required through the rfs program to blend specified volumes of renewable transportation fuels with gasoline or buy credits, referred to as rins, from renewable fuel producers. the company has invested, and continues to invest, in facilities to capture and treat renewable natural gas from the company landfills so that we can participate in the program. the value of the rins associated with our landfill gas is set through a market established by the program. changes in the rfs market or the structure of the rfs program could reduce the value of landfill gas rins and negatively impact the financial performance of the facilities constructed to capture and treat the gas. increasing customer preference for alternatives to landfill disposal and bans on certain types of waste could reduce our landfill volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. our customers are increasingly diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. in addition, many state and local governments mandate diversion, recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, food waste and electronics at landfills. where such organic waste is not banned from the landfill, some large customers such as grocery stores and restaurants are choosing to divert their organic waste from landfills. zero-waste goals (sending no waste to the landfill) have been set by many of north america largest companies. although such mandates and initiatives help to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to our landfills which may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. our landfills currently provide our highest income from operations margins. if we are not successful in expanding our service offerings and growing lines of businesses to service waste streams that do not go to landfills and to provide services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, then our revenues and operating results may decline. additionally, despite the development of new service offerings and lines of business, it is possible that our revenues and our income from operations margins could be negatively affected due to disposal alternatives. additionally, with a heightened awareness of the global problems of plastic waste in the environment, an increasing number of cities across the country have passed ordinances banning certain types of plastics from sale or use. bans on single use plastic bags, straws, and polystyrene food containers have been passed in over 350 cities, and a ban on single use plastic bags has been implemented in the state of california. these bans have increased pressure by manufacturers on our recycling facilities to accept a broader array of materials in curbside recycling programs to alleviate public pressure to ban the sale of those materials. however, there are currently no viable end markets for recycling these materials and 19 table of contents inclusion of such materials in our recycling stream can increase contamination of the recycling stream and negatively affect the results of our recycling operations. developments in technology could trigger a fundamental change in the waste management industry, as waste streams are increasingly viewed as a resource, which may adversely impact volumes at our landfills and our profitability. our company and others have recognized the value of the traditional waste stream as a potential resource. research and development activities are on-going to provide disposal alternatives that maximize the value of waste, including using waste as a source for renewable energy and other valuable by-products. we and many other companies are investing in these technologies. it is possible that such investments and technological advancements may reduce the cost of waste disposal or the value of landfill gas recovery to a level below our costs and may reduce the demand for landfill space. as a result, our revenues and margins could be adversely affected due to advancements in disposal alternatives. if we are not able to develop new service offerings and protect intellectual property, or if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology, our financial results may suffer. our existing and proposed service offerings to customers may require that we invest in, develop or license, and protect new technologies. research and development of new technologies and investment in emerging technologies often requires significant spending that may divert capital investment away from our traditional business operations. we may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services or emerging technologies in which we have invested, which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market. further, protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of intellectual property is difficult, and any inability to obtain or protect new technologies could impact our services to customers and development of new revenue sources. our company and others are increasingly focusing on new technologies that provide alternatives to traditional disposal and maximize the resource value of waste. if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology that provides a revolutionary change in traditional waste management, or if we have inferior intellectual property to our competitors, our financial results may suffer. our business depends on our reputation and the value of our brand. we believe we have developed a reputation for high-quality service, reliability and social and environmental responsibility, and we believe our brand symbolizes these attributes. the waste management brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, as well as contractual obligations that may result in significant liabilities. there is risk of incurring significant environmental liabilities in the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of waste materials. under applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be liable if our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. under current law, we could also be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved and for conditions resulting from waste types or compounds previously considered non-hazardous but later determined to present possible threat to public health or the environment. the risks of successor liability and emerging contaminants are of particular concern as we execute our growth strategy, partially though acquisitions, because we may be unsuccessful in identifying and assessing potential liabilities during our due diligence investigations. further, the counterparties in such transactions may be unable to perform their 20 table of contents indemnification obligations owed to us. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, we are currently, and we may in the future, become involved in legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and local communities, citizen groups, landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. further, we often enter into agreements with landowners imposing obligations on us to meet certain regulatory or contractual conditions upon site closure or upon termination of the agreements. compliance with these agreements inherently involves subjective determinations and may result in disputes, including litigation. costs to remediate or restore the condition of closed sites may be significant. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our revenues and our income from operations margins. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. a weak economy generally results in decreased consumer spending and decreases in volumes of waste generated, which negatively impacts the ability to grow through new business or service upgrades, and may result in customer turnover and reduction in customers waste service needs. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may also reduce the number and variety of services requested by customers. additionally, a weak market for consumer goods can significantly decrease demand by paper mills for recycled corrugated cardboard used in packaging; such decrease in demand can negatively impact commodity prices and our operating income and cash flows. a decrease in waste volumes generated results in an increase in competitive pricing pressure, and such economic conditions may also interfere with our ability to implement our pricing strategy. many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index, and our costs may increase more than the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. this is partially due to our relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to quickly adjust to match shifting volume levels and vendor costs, which may not correlate with the consumer price index or the waste industry. some of our customers, including governmental entities, have suffered financial difficulties affecting their credit risk, which could negatively impact our operating results. we provide service to a number of governmental entities and municipalities, some of which have suffered significant financial difficulties in recent years, due in part to reduced tax revenue and/or high cost structures. some of these entities could be unable to pay amounts owed to us or renew contracts with us at previous or increased rates. many non-governmental customers have also suffered serious financial difficulties, including bankruptcy in some cases. purchasers of our recycling commodities can be particularly vulnerable to financial difficulties in times of commodity price volatility. the inability of our customers to pay us in a timely manner or to pay increased rates, particularly large national accounts, could negatively affect our operating results. 21 table of contents in addition, the financial difficulties of municipalities could result in a decline in investors demand for municipal bonds and a correlating increase in interest rates. as of december 31, 2018, we had $705 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that expire within the next 12 months and $513 million of variable-rate tax-exempt bonds with interest rates reset on either a daily or a weekly basis. if market dynamics resulted in repricing of our tax-exempt bonds at significantly higher interest rates, we would incur increased interest expenses that may negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or to expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. our ability to meet our financial and operating objectives depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain the permits necessary to operate landfill sites. permits to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills and transfer stations, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities or expanding existing facilities. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant shortages in diesel fuel supply or increases in diesel fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. the price and supply of diesel fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. we need diesel fuel to run a significant portion of our collection and transfer trucks and our equipment used in our landfill operations. supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. additionally, if fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses increase and many of our vendors raise their prices to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. additionally, lawsuits have challenged our fuel and environmental charges included on our invoices. regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, increased operating costs due to higher diesel fuel prices will decrease our income from operations margins. we have an extensive natural gas truck fleet, which makes us partially dependent on the availability of natural gas and fueling infrastructure and vulnerable to natural gas prices. we operate a large fleet of natural gas vehicles, and we plan to continue to invest in these assets for our collection fleet. however, natural gas fueling infrastructure is not yet broadly available in north america; as a result, we have constructed and operate natural gas fueling stations, some of which also serve the public or pre-approved third parties. it will remain necessary for us to invest capital in fueling infrastructure in order to power our natural gas fleet. concerns have been raised about the potential for emissions from fueling infrastructure that serve natural gas-fueled vehicles. new regulation of, or restrictions on, natural gas fueling infrastructure or reductions in associated tax incentives could increase our operating costs. additionally, fluctuations in the price and supply of natural gas could substantially increase our operating expenses, and a reduction in the existing cost differential between natural gas and diesel fuel could materially reduce the benefits we anticipate from our investment in natural gas vehicles. further, our fuel surcharge program is currently indexed to diesel fuel prices, and price fluctuations for natural gas may not effectively be recovered by this program. 22 table of contents we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with the operation of our current information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, as well as the development and deployment of new information technology systems, that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. a cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers and expose us to litigation risk. substantially all aspects of our business operations rely on digital technology. we use computers, mobile devices, social networking and other online platforms to connect with our employees and our customers. such uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers credit card information. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber intrusions, and we must commit substantial resources to continuously monitor and further develop our networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, and address the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events. our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be effective in all cases. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, direct financial loss, negative publicity, brand damage, violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential litigation and liability and competitive disadvantage. further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. certain new technologies, such as use of autonomous vehicles, remote-controlled equipment and virtual reality, present new and significant cybersecurity safety risks that must be analyzed and addressed before implementation. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. our operating expenses could increase as a result of labor unions organizing or changes in regulations related to labor unions. labor unions continually attempt to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees are currently represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with these unions. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, would enhance organized labor leverage to obtain higher than expected wage and benefits costs and resist the introduction of new technology and other initiatives, which can result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, our operating expenses could increase significantly as a result of work stoppages, including strikes. any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could face significant liabilities for withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans. we are a participating employer in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer defined benefit pension plans ( multiemployer pension plans ) for employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the event of our withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan, we may incur expenses associated with our obligations for unfunded 23 table of contents vested benefits at the time of the withdrawal. depending on various factors, future withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on results of operations or cash flows for a particular reporting period. we have previously withdrawn from certain underfunded multiemployer pension plans, and we recognized related expenses of $3 million and $12 million in 2018 and 2017, respectively. in 2016, we did not recognize any charges for the withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans. see notes 9 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements for more information related to our participation in multiemployer pension plans. our business is subject to operational and safety risks, including the risk of personal injury to employees and others. providing environmental and waste management services, including constructing and operating landfills, transfer stations, mrfs and other disposal facilities, involves risks such as truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures. additionally, we closely monitor and manage landfills to minimize the risk of waste mass instability, releases of hazardous materials, and odors that could be triggered by weather or natural disasters. there may also be risks presented by the potential for subsurface heat reactions causing elevated landfill temperatures and increased production of leachate, landfill gas and odors. we also build and operate natural gas fueling stations, some of which also serve the public or third parties. operation of fueling stations and landfill gas collection and control systems involves additional risks of fire and explosion. any of these risks could potentially result in injury or death of employees and others, a need to shut down or reduce operation of facilities, increased operating expense and exposure to liability for pollution and other environmental damage, and property damage or destruction. while we seek to minimize our exposure to such risks through comprehensive training, compliance and response and recovery programs, as well as vehicle and equipment maintenance programs, if we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of any applicable insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. any such incidents could also tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. additionally, a major operational failure, even if suffered by a competitor, may bring enhanced scrutiny and regulation of our industry, with a corresponding increase in operating expense. we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide and, therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily-required levels. we face the risk of incurring additional costs for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of other insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby enabling us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. the inability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect of significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may subject us to additional risks. to the extent our insurers are unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims are more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to variable-rate tax-exempt debt, final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, fund trust and escrow accounts or rely upon wm financial guarantees. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. our financial position, which can be negatively affected by asset impairments, our credit profile and general economic factors, may adversely affect the cost of our current financial assurance instruments, and changes in regulations may impose stricter requirements on the types of financial assurance that will be accepted. additionally, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. it is possible that we could be forced to deposit cash to collateralize our obligations. other forms of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, and any requirements to use cash to support our obligations would negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. 24 table of contents we may record material charges against our earnings due to impairments to our assets. in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ), we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. events that could, in some circumstances, lead to an impairment include, but are not limited to, shutting down a facility or operation or abandoning a development project or the denial of an expansion permit. additionally, declining waste volumes and development of, and customer preference for, alternatives to traditional waste disposal could warrant asset impairments. if we determine an asset or expansion project is impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such asset or project reduced by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, which is required to be assessed for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we may be required to incur charges against earnings if such impairment tests indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our capital requirements and our business strategy could increase our expenses, cause us to change our growth and development plans, or result in an inability to maintain our desired credit profile. if economic conditions or other risks and uncertainties cause a significant reduction in our cash flows from operations, we may reduce or suspend capital expenditures, growth and acquisition activity, implementation of our business strategy, dividend declarations or share repurchases. we may choose to incur indebtedness to pay for these activities, although our access to capital markets is not assured and we may not be able to incur indebtedness at a cost that is consistent with current borrowing rates. we also may need to incur indebtedness to refinance scheduled debt maturities, and it is possible that the cost of financing could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. further, our ability to execute our financial strategy and our ability to incur indebtedness is somewhat dependent upon our ability to maintain investment grade credit ratings on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon our credit profile and several other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including methodologies established and interpreted by third-party rating agencies. if we were unable to maintain our investment grade credit ratings in the future, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected. additionally, we have $2.2 billion of debt as of december 31, 2018 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months because of the combined impact of our tax-exempt bonds, outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program and our $2.75 billion revolving credit facility. if interest rates increase, our interest expense would also increase, lowering our net income and decreasing our cash flow. we may use our $2.75 billion revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available, until maturity in june 2023. as of december 31, 2018, we had c$15 million, or $11 million, of canadian borrowings outstanding borrowings under this facility. we had $587 million of letters of credit issued and $990 million of outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper program, both supported by this facility, leaving unused and available credit capacity of $1.2 billion as of december 31, 2018. in the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could increase our costs to operate. our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a ghg. there are a number of legislative and regulatory efforts at the state, regional and federal levels to curtail the emission of ghgs to ameliorate the effect of climate change. should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it could impose costs on our operations that might not be offset by the revenue increases associated with our lower-carbon service options, the materiality of which we cannot predict. in 2010, the epa published a prevention of significant deterioration and title v ghg tailoring rule, which 25 table of contents expanded the epa federal air permitting authority to include the six ghgs. the rule sets new thresholds for ghg emissions that define when clean air act permits are required. the current requirements of these rules have not significantly affected our operations or cash flows, due to the tailored thresholds and exclusions of certain emissions from regulation. however, if certain changes to these regulations were enacted, such as lowering the thresholds or the inclusion of biogenic emissions, then the amendments could have an adverse effect on our operating costs. the seasonal nature of our business, severe weather events and event driven special projects cause our results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher construction and demolition waste volumes. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. service disruptions caused by severe storms, extended periods of inclement weather or climate extremes resulting from climate change can significantly affect the operating results of the areas affected. on the other hand, certain destructive weather and climate conditions, such as wildfires in the western u.s. and hurricanes that most often impact our operations in the southern and eastern u.s. during the second half of the year, can increase our revenues in the areas affected. while weather-related and other event driven special projects can boost revenues through additional work for a limited time, due to significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue can generate earnings at comparatively lower margins. for these and other reasons, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. our stock price may be negatively impacted by interim variations in our results. we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and our reputation could be adversely affected, if our businesses, or third parties with whom we have a relationship, were to fail to comply with u.s. or foreign laws or regulations. some of our projects and new business may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically been prevalent. it is our policy to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate, and we monitor our local partners compliance with such laws as well. our reputation may be adversely affected if we were reported to be associated with corrupt practices or if we or our local partners failed to comply with such laws. such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. additionally, violations of such laws could subject us to significant fines and penalties. currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. from time to time we are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. we are also party to civil litigation. as a large company with operations across the u.s. and canada, we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes and claims arising in the ordinary course of our business. actions that have been filed against us, and that may be filed against us in the future, include personal injury, property damage, commercial, customer, and employment-related claims, including purported state and national class action lawsuits related to: alleged environmental contamination, including releases of hazardous materials and odors; sales and marketing practices, customer service agreements, prices and fees; and federal and state wage and hour and other laws. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. 26 table of contents we may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported financial position or operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, certain commodity prices and canadian currency rates. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. the company had no derivatives outstanding as of december 31, 2018. interest rate exposure our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities. as of december 31, 2018, we had $10.1 billion of long-term debt, excluding the impacts of accounting for debt issuance costs, discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments attributable to terminated interest rate derivatives. we have $2.2 billion of debt that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months comprised of (i) $990 million of short-term borrowings under our commercial paper program; (ii) $705 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that expire within the next 12 months; (iii) $513 million of variable-rate tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or weekly basis and (iv) c$15 million, or $11 million, of canadian borrowings under our $2.75 billion revolving credit facility. we currently estimate that a 100 basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2019 interest expense by $19 million. our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed-rate tax-exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds 12 months. the fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change. we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive debt instruments. this analysis is inherently limited because it reflects a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. an instantaneous, 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our debt by approximately $575 million as of december 31, 2018. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk from our cash and cash equivalent balances, as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. these assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in u.s. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value of these assets due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant as the fair value generally approximates our cost basis. we also invest a portion of our restricted trust and escrow account balances in available-for-sale securities, including u.s. treasury securities, u.s. agency securities, municipal securities, mortgage- and asset-backed securities and equity securities. commodity price exposure in the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including old corrugated cardboard, old newsprint and plastics; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets in which we operate. we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues may also increase or decrease. currency rate exposure we have operations in canada as well as certain support functions in india. where significant, we have quantified and described the impact of foreign currency translation on components of income, including operating revenue and operating expenses. however, the impact of foreign currency has not materially affected our results of operations. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors. in an effort to keep our stockholders and the public informed about our business, we may make forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements are often identified by the words, will, may, should, continue, anticipate, believe, expect, plan, forecast, project, estimate, intend and words of a similar nature and generally include statements regarding: future results of operations, including revenues, earnings or cash flows; plans and objectives for the future; projections, estimates or assumptions relating to our operational or financial performance; or our opinions, views or beliefs about the effects of current or future events, circumstances or performance. you should view these statements with caution. these statements are not guarantees of future performance, circumstances or events. they are based on facts and circumstances known to us as of the date the statements are made. all aspects of our business are subject to uncertainties, risks and other influences, many of which we do not control. any of these factors, either alone or taken together, could have a material adverse effect on us and could change whether any forward-looking statement ultimately turns out to be true. additionally, we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statement as a result of future events, circumstances or developments. the following discussion should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. outlined below are some of the risks that we believe could affect our business and financial statements for 2020 and beyond and could cause actual results to be materially different from those that may be set forth in forward-looking statements made by the company. the waste industry is highly competitive, and if we cannot successfully compete in the marketplace, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. we encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. we principally compete with large national waste management companies, counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations and regional and local companies of varying sizes and financial resources. the industry also includes companies that specialize in certain discrete areas of waste management, operators of alternative disposal facilities, companies that seek to use parts of the waste stream as feedstock for renewable energy and other by-products, and waste brokers that rely upon haulers in local markets to address customer needs. in recent years, the industry has seen some additional consolidation, though the industry remains intensely competitive. counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues are available to them and tax-exempt financing is more readily available to them. also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. in addition, some of our competitors may have lower financial expectations, allowing them to reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively-bid contracts, including large national accounts and exclusive franchise arrangements with municipalities. when this happens, we may lose customers and be unable to execute our pricing strategy, resulting in a negative impact to our revenue growth from yield on base business. 15 table of contents if we fail to implement our business strategy, our financial performance and our growth could be materially and adversely affected. our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. implementation of our strategy will require effective management of our operational, financial and human resources and will place significant demands on those resources. see item 1. business for more information on our business strategy. there are risks involved in pursuing our strategy, including the following: our employees, customers or investors may not embrace and support our strategy. we may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to manage our strategy effectively. a key element of our strategy is yield management through focus on price leadership, which has presented challenges to keep existing business and win new business at reasonable returns. we have also continued our environmental fee, fuel surcharge and regulatory recovery fee to offset costs. the loss of volumes as a result of price increases and our unwillingness to pursue lower margin volumes may negatively affect our cash flows or results of operations. additionally, we have in the past and may in the future face purported class action lawsuits related to our customer service agreements, prices and fees. we may be unsuccessful in implementing improvements to operational efficiency and such efforts may not yield the intended result. we may not be able to maintain cost savings achieved through optimization efforts. strategic decisions with respect to our asset portfolio may result in impairments to our assets. see item 1a. risk factors we may record material charges against our earnings due to impairments to our assets . our ability to make strategic acquisitions depends on our ability to identify desirable acquisition targets, negotiate advantageous transactions despite competition for such opportunities, fund such acquisitions on favorable terms, obtain regulatory approvals and realize the benefits we expect from those transactions. acquisitions, investments and/or new service offerings may not increase our earnings in the timeframe anticipated, or at all, due to difficulties operating in new markets or providing new service offerings, failure of emerging technologies to perform as expected, failure to operate within budget, integration issues, or regulatory issues, among others. integration of acquisitions and/or new services offerings could increase our exposure to the risk of inadvertent noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations. liabilities associated with acquisitions, including ones that may exist only because of past operations of an acquired business, may prove to be more difficult or costly to address than anticipated. execution of our strategy, particularly growth through acquisitions, may cause us to incur substantial additional indebtedness, which may divert capital away from our traditional business operations and other financial plans. we continue to seek to divest underperforming and non-strategic assets if we cannot improve their profitability. we may not be able to successfully negotiate the divestiture of underperforming and non-strategic operations, which could result in asset impairments or the continued operation of low-margin businesses. in addition to the risks set forth above, implementation of our business strategy could also be affected by other factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, legal developments, government regulation, general economic conditions, increased operating costs or expenses, subcontractor costs and availability and changes in industry trends. we may decide to alter or discontinue certain aspects of our business strategy at any time. if we are not able to implement our business strategy successfully, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business strategy successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. 16 table of contents our planned acquisition of advanced disposal services, inc. ( advanced disposal ) may not occur at all, may not occur in the expected time frame or may involve the divestiture of certain businesses and assets, which may negatively affect the trading price of our common stock and our future business and financial results. on april 14, 2019, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger pursuant to which, among other things and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of specified conditions, we agreed to acquire advanced disposal. if the acquisition is completed, advanced disposal will become an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of wm. the consummation of the acquisition is not assured and is subject to certain conditions, including the expiration or termination of any waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder and the absence of any law or order restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the acquisition, as well as other customary closing conditions. the planned acquisition of advanced disposal is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including general economic and capital markets conditions; the effects that the pending merger may have on us, advanced disposal and our respective businesses; inability to obtain required regulatory or government approvals or to obtain such approvals on satisfactory conditions; inability of advanced disposal to satisfy other closing conditions; the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could give rise to the termination of the agreement and plan of merger, several of which could require us to pay a termination fee of $150 million to advanced disposal; legal proceedings that may be instituted related to the proposed acquisition and the legal expenses and diversion of management's attention that may be associated therewith; and unexpected costs, charges or expenses. if the planned acquisition of advanced disposal is not completed, if there are significant delays in completing the planned acquisition or if the planned acquisition involves an unexpected amount of required divestitures, it could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock and our future business and financial results. additionally, in may 2019, we issued senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $3 billion that include a special mandatory redemption feature. this feature provides that if the acquisition of advanced disposal is not completed on or prior to july 14, 2020, or if, prior to such date, the agreement and plan of merger is terminated for any reason, we will be required to redeem all of such outstanding notes equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amounts of such notes, plus accrued but unpaid interest. our ability to pay the redemption price may be limited by our financial resources at the time and the terms of our debt instruments and other instruments and agreements. we may also be required to incur additional indebtedness and reduce availability under our $3.5 billion revolving credit facility to fund the redemption price. any failure to pay the special mandatory redemption price of such notes when due would constitute an event of default with respect to the notes of such series and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and the market prices of our securities. further, if we redeem such series of notes pursuant to the special mandatory redemption feature, our investors may be dissatisfied that they did not obtain the return that they expected on their investment in those notes. we may not realize the strategic benefits and cost synergies that are anticipated from the planned acquisition of advanced disposal. the benefits that are expected to result from the planned acquisition of advanced disposal will depend, in part, on our ability to realize anticipated cost synergies. our success in realizing these benefits and cost synergies, and the timing of this realization, depends on the successful integration of advanced disposal. there is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition of this size. the process of integrating operations could cause business interruption and distraction. some members of our management may be required to devote considerable time to this integration process, which will decrease the time they will have to manage our company, service existing customers, attract new customers and develop new products or strategies. if management is not able to effectively manage the integration process, or if any significant business activities are interrupted as a result of the integration process, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. the acquisition of advanced disposal may not result in realization of the benefits and cost synergies that we currently expect, and we cannot guarantee that these benefits and cost synergies will be achieved within anticipated time frames or at all. additionally, we may incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of advanced disposal, which may exceed expectations and offset certain benefits. 17 table of contents compliance with existing or increased future regulations and/or enforcement of such regulations can restrict or change our operations, increase our operating costs or require us to make additional capital expenditures, and a decrease in regulation may lower barriers to entry for our competitors. stringent government regulations at the federal, state, provincial and local level in the u.s. and canada have a substantial impact on our business, and compliance with such regulations is costly. many complex laws, rules, orders and interpretations govern environmental protection, health, safety, land use, zoning, transportation and related matters. among other things, governmental regulations and enforcement actions restrict our operations at times and may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows by imposing conditions such as: limitations on siting and constructing new waste disposal, transfer, recycling or processing facilities or on expanding existing facilities; limitations, regulations or levies on collection and disposal prices, rates and volumes; limitations or bans on disposal or transportation of out-of-state waste or certain categories of waste; mandates regarding the management of solid waste, including requirements to recycle, divert or otherwise process certain waste, recycling and other streams; or limitations or restrictions on the recycling, processing or transformation of waste, recycling and other streams. regulations affecting the siting, design and closure of landfills require us, at times, to undertake investigatory or remedial activities, curtail operations or close landfills temporarily or permanently. we have significant financial obligations relating to final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation at our existing landfills and we establish accruals for these estimated costs. expenditures could be accelerated or materially exceed our accruals due to the types of waste collected and manner in which it is transported and disposed of, including actions taken in the past by companies we have acquired or third-party landfill operators; environmental regulatory changes; new information about waste types previously collected, such as pfas or other emerging contaminates, and other reasons. in order to develop, expand or operate a landfill or other waste management facility, we must have various facility permits and other governmental approvals, including those relating to zoning, environmental protection and land use. the permits and approvals are often difficult, time consuming and costly to obtain and sometimes contain conditions that limit our operations. various states have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws that restrict the disposal within the state of solid waste generated outside the state. from time to time, the u.s. congress has considered legislation authorizing states to adopt regulations, restrictions, or taxes on the importation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste. additionally, several state and local governments have enacted flow control regulations, which attempt to require that all waste generated within the state or local jurisdiction be deposited at specific sites. the u.s. congress' adoption of legislation allowing restrictions on interstate transportation of out-of-state or out-of-jurisdiction waste certain types of flow control, or courts' interpretations of interstate waste and flow control legislation, could adversely affect our solid and hazardous waste management services. additionally, regulations establishing extended producer responsibility ( epr ) are being considered or implemented in many places around the world, including in the u.s. and canada. epr regulations are designed to place either partial or total responsibility on producers to fund the post-use life cycle of the products they create. along with the funding responsibility, producers may be required to undertake additional responsibilities, such as taking over management of local recycling programs by taking back their products from end users or managing the collection operations and recycling processing infrastructure. there is no federal law establishing epr in the u.s. or canada; however, state, provincial and local governments could, and in some cases have, taken steps to implement epr regulations. if wide-ranging epr regulations were adopted, they could have a fundamental impact on the waste streams we manage and how we operate our business, including contract terms and pricing. a significant reduction in the waste, recycling and other streams we manage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 table of contents the regulatory environment in which we operate is influenced by changes in leadership at the federal, state, provincial and local levels. the policies set forth under the current u.s. administration, for example, have included substantial changes to foreign trade policy and generally have been in favor of reducing regulation, including environmental regulation. we cannot predict what impact the current administration will have on future regulations impacting our industry, especially given the number of rules currently in litigation, nor can we predict the timing of any such changes. reduction of regulation may have a favorable impact on our operating costs, but the extensive environmental regulation governing landfills is a substantial barrier to entry that benefits our company. moreover, the risk reduction provided by stringent regulation is valuable to our customers and the communities we serve. it is likely that some policies adopted by the current administration will benefit us and others will negatively affect us. our revenues, earnings and cash flows will fluctuate based on changes in commodity prices, and commodity prices for recyclable materials are particularly susceptible to volatility based on regulations and tariffs that affect our ability to export products. enforcement or implementation of foreign and domestic regulations can affect our ability to export products. a significant portion of the fiber that we market has historically been shipped to export markets across the globe, particularly china. in recent years, the chinese government announced bans on certain materials and begun to enforce extremely restrictive quality and other requirements that have significantly reduced china's import of recyclables. the chinese government has also limited the flow of material into china by restricting the issuance of required import licenses and the restriction on import licenses is expected to constrict further in 2020. in addition, changes to foreign trade policy and tariffs imposed by the current u.s. administration have resulted in china imposing new tariffs on the import of recyclables. we anticipate china will ban the import of recyclables completely in 2021. many other markets, both domestic and foreign, have tightened their quality expectations and limited or restricted the import of certain recyclables as well. such trade restrictions and tariffs have disrupted the global trade of recyclables, particularly fiber, creating excess supply and decreasing recyclable commodity prices. we have been actively working to identify alternative markets for recycling commodities, but there may not be demand for all of the material we produce. the heightened quality requirements have been difficult for the industry to achieve and have driven up operating costs. in particular, single-stream mrfs process a wide range of commingled materials and tend to receive a higher percentage of non-recyclables, which results in increased processing and residual disposal costs to achieve quality standards. as recyclable commodity prices have fallen and operating costs have increased, we and other recyclers are seeking to pass cost increases through to customers. the resulting price increase for recycling services in communities and at businesses in the u.s. has resulted in some customers reducing or eliminating their recycling service. reductions in market prices for recycling commodities, and reduction in demand for recycling commodities and recycling services, have negatively impacted our operating income and cash flows in 2018 and 2019. the decline in market prices in 2019 and 2018 for recycling commodities resulted in a decrease in revenue of $248 million and $273 million, respectively. as we have increased the size of our recycling operations, we have also increased our exposure to commodity price fluctuations. additionally, future regulation, tariffs or initiatives may result in further reduced demand or increased operating costs, which would cause the profitability of our recycling operations to decline. fluctuation in energy prices also affects our business, including recycling of plastics manufactured from petroleum products. significant variations in the price of methane gas, electricity and other energy-related products that are marketed and sold by our landfill gas recovery operations can result in a corresponding significant impact to our revenue from yield from such operations. additionally, we provide specialized disposal services for oil and gas exploration and production operations through our ees organization. demand for these services decreases when drilling activity slows due to depressed oil and gas prices, such as the low prices throughout the last few years. any of the commodity prices to which we are subject may fluctuate substantially and without notice in the future. 19 table of contents changes in regulations applicable to oil and gas exploration, production and disposal could adversely affect our ees organization. our ees organization provides specialized environmental management and disposal services for fluids used and wastes generated by customers engaged in oil and gas exploration and production, and these disposal services include the use of underground injection wells. demand for these services is adversely affected if drilling activity slows due to regulation and industry conditions beyond our control, in addition to changes in oil and gas prices. there is heightened federal regulatory focus on emissions of methane that occur during drilling and transportation, as well as state attention to protective disposal of drilling residuals. there also remains heightened attention from the public, some states and the epa to the alleged potential for hydraulic fracturing that occurs during drilling to impact drinking water supplies. increased regulation of oil and gas exploration and production, including ghg emissions or hydraulic fracturing, could make it more difficult or cost-prohibitive for our ees customers to continue operations, adversely affecting our business. additionally, any new regulations regarding the treatment and disposal of wastes associated with exploration and production operations, including through the use of injection wells, could increase our costs to provide oilfield services and reduce our margins and revenue from such services. conversely, any loosening of regulations regarding how such wastes are handled or disposed of could adversely impact demand for our ees services. changes to the regulatory framework related to renewable fuel standards could affect our financial performance in that sector as a renewable fuel producer. the company acts as a renewable fuel producer in the rfs program enacted by congress under the energy policy act and energy independence and security act. oil refiners and importers are required through the rfs program to blend specified volumes of renewable transportation fuels with gasoline or buy credits, referred to as rins, from renewable fuel producers. the company has invested, and continues to invest, in facilities that capture and convert landfill gas into renewable natural gas so that we can participate in the program. the value of the rins associated with our landfill gas is set through a market established by the program. the epa finalized a rule in december 2019 increasing refiners' obligations to purchase renewable natural gas and other cellulosic biofuels under the rfs program for compliance year 2020. unlike in prior years, however, market uncertainty stemming from the epa's administration of the rfs program led to a rapid decline in rin values. we continue to advocate for the epa to implement policies that ensure long-term stability for renewable transportation fuels as changes in the rfs market or the structure of the rfs program can and has reduced the value of renewable natural gas rins and negatively impacted the financial performance of the facilities constructed to capture and treat the gas. increasing customer preference for alternatives to landfill disposal and bans on certain types of waste could reduce our landfill volumes and cause our revenues and operating results to decline. our customers are increasingly diverting waste to alternatives to landfill disposal, such as recycling and composting, while also working to reduce the amount of waste they generate. in addition, many state and local governments mandate diversion, recycling and waste reduction at the source and prohibit the disposal of certain types of waste, such as yard waste, food waste and electronics at landfills. where such organic waste is not banned from the landfill, some large customers such as grocery stores and restaurants are choosing to divert their organic waste from landfills. zero-waste goals (sending no waste to the landfill) have been set by many of north america's largest companies. although such mandates and initiatives help to protect our environment, these developments reduce the volume of waste going to our landfills which may affect the prices that we can charge for landfill disposal. our landfills currently provide our highest income from operations margins. if we are not successful in expanding our service offerings, growing lines of businesses to service waste streams that do not go to landfills providing services for customers that wish to reduce waste entirely, then our revenues and operating results may decline. additionally, despite the development of new service offerings and lines of business, it is possible that our revenues and our income from operations margins could be negatively affected due to disposal alternatives. with a heightened awareness of the global problems caused by plastic waste in the environment, an increasing number of cities across the country have passed ordinances banning certain types of plastics from sale or use. over 800 pieces of 20 table of contents legislation, approximately 50% of which are bans on plastic bags, have been introduced in the u.s. regulating plastics; 660 passed, including 585 city ordinances. others include bans on the sale or use of plastic straws, polystyrene plastic and single use packaging. these bans have increased pressure by manufacturers on our recycling facilities to accept a broader array of materials in curbside recycling programs to alleviate public pressures to ban the sale of those materials. however, there are currently no viable end markets for recycling these materials and inclusion of such materials in our recycling stream increases contamination and operating costs and can negatively affect the results of our recycling operations. developments in technology could trigger a fundamental change in the waste management industry, as waste streams are increasingly viewed as a resource, which may adversely impact volumes at our landfills and our profitability. our company and others have recognized the value of the traditional waste stream as a potential resource. research and development activities are on-going to provide disposal alternatives that maximize the value of waste, including using waste as a source for renewable energy and other valuable by-products. we and many other companies are investing in these technologies. it is possible that such investments and technological advancements may reduce the cost of waste disposal or the value of landfill gas recovery to a level below our costs and may reduce the demand for landfill space. as a result, our revenues and margins could be adversely affected due to advancements in disposal alternatives. if we are not able to develop new service offerings and protect intellectual property or if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology, our financial results may suffer. our existing and proposed service offerings to customers require that we invest in, develop or license, and protect new technologies. research and development of new technologies and investment in emerging technologies often requires significant spending that may divert capital investment away from our traditional business operations. we may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services or emerging technologies in which we have invested, which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to bring new products and services to market. further, protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of intellectual property is difficult, and any inability to obtain or protect new technologies could impact our services to customers and development of new revenue sources. our company and others are increasingly focusing on new technologies that innovate our operations, improve the customer experience and provide alternatives to traditional disposal and maximize the resource value of waste. if a competitor develops or obtains exclusive rights to a breakthrough technology that provides a revolutionary change in traditional waste management, or if we have inferior intellectual property to our competitors, our financial results may suffer. our business depends on our reputation and the value of our brand. we believe we have developed a reputation for high-quality service, reliability and social and environmental responsibility, and we believe our brand symbolizes these attributes. the waste management brand name, trademarks and logos and our reputation are powerful sales and marketing tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. adverse publicity, whether or not justified, relating to activities by our operations, employees or agents could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services. this reduction in demand, together with the dedication of time and expense necessary to defend our reputation, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand. our operations are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, as well as contractual obligations that may result in significant liabilities. there is risk of incurring significant environmental liabilities in the use, treatment, storage, transfer and disposal of waste materials. under applicable environmental laws and regulations, we could be liable if it is alleged that our operations cause environmental damage to our properties or to the property of other landowners, particularly as a result of the contamination of air, drinking water or soil. under current law, we could also be held liable for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired the assets or operations involved and for conditions resulting from waste types or compounds previously considered non-hazardous but later determined to present possible threat to public health or the 21 table of contents environment. the risks of successor liability and emerging contaminants are of particular concern as we execute our growth strategy, partially though acquisitions, because we may be unsuccessful in identifying and assessing potential liabilities during our due diligence investigations. further, the counterparties in such transactions may be unable to perform their indemnification obligations owed to us. any substantial liability for environmental damage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in the ordinary course of our business, we have in the past, we are currently, and we may in the future, become involved in legal and administrative proceedings relating to land use and environmental laws and regulations. these include proceedings in which: agencies of federal, state, local or foreign governments seek to impose liability on us under applicable statutes, sometimes involving civil or criminal penalties for violations, or to revoke or deny renewal of a permit we need; and local communities, citizen groups, landowners or governmental agencies oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we need, allege violations of the permits under which we operate or laws or regulations to which we are subject, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. we generally seek to work with the authorities or other persons involved in these proceedings to resolve any issues raised. if we are not successful, the adverse outcome of one or more of these proceedings could result in, among other things, material increases in our costs or liabilities as well as material charges for asset impairments. further, we often enter into agreements with landowners imposing obligations on us to meet certain regulatory or contractual conditions upon site closure or upon termination of the agreements. compliance with these agreements inherently involves subjective determinations and may result in disputes, including litigation. costs to remediate or restore the condition of closed sites may be significant. general economic conditions can directly and adversely affect our revenues and our income from operations margins. our business is directly affected by changes in national and general economic factors that are outside of our control, including consumer confidence, interest rates and access to capital markets. a weak economy generally results in decreased consumer spending and decreases in volumes of waste generated, which negatively impacts the ability to grow through new business or service upgrades, and may result in customer turnover and reduction in customers' waste service needs. consumer uncertainty and the loss of consumer confidence may also reduce the number and variety of services requested by customers. additionally, a weak market for consumer goods can significantly decrease demand by paper mills for recycled corrugated cardboard used in packaging; such decrease in demand can negatively impact commodity prices and our operating income and cash flows. a decrease in waste volumes generated results in an increase in competitive pricing pressure; such economic conditions may also interfere with our ability to implement our pricing strategy. many of our contracts have price adjustment provisions that are tied to an index such as the consumer price index, and our costs may increase more than the increase, if any, in the consumer price index. this is partially due to our relatively high fixed-cost structure, which is difficult to quickly adjust to match shifting volume levels and vendor costs, and may not correlate with the consumer price index or the waste industry. weakness in the economy may expose us to credit risk of governmental entities and municipalities and other major customers, which could negatively impact our operating results. we provide service to a number of governmental entities, municipalities, and large national accounts. during periods of economic weakness, governmental entities and municipalities can suffer significant financial difficulties, due in part to reduced tax revenue and/or high cost structures. during these periods, such entities, and our non-governmental customers, could be unable to pay amounts owed to us or renew contracts with us at previous or increased rates. 22 table of contents purchasers of our recycling commodities can be particularly vulnerable to financial difficulties in times of commodity price volatility. the inability of our customers to pay us in a timely manner or to pay increased rates, particularly large national accounts, could negatively affect our operating results. in addition, the financial difficulties of municipalities could result in a decline in investors' demand for municipal bonds and a correlating increase in interest rates. as of december 31, 2019, we had $669 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that expire within the next 12 months and $355 million of variable-rate tax-exempt bonds with interest rates reset on either a daily or a weekly basis. if market dynamics resulted in repricing of our tax-exempt bonds at significantly higher interest rates, we would incur increased interest expenses that may negatively affect our operating results and cash flows. we may be unable to obtain or maintain required permits or expand existing permitted capacity of our landfills, which could decrease our revenue and increase our costs. our ability to meet our financial and operating objectives depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain the permits necessary to operate landfill sites. permits to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills and transfer stations, have become more difficult and expensive to obtain and maintain. permits often take years to obtain as a result of numerous hearings and compliance requirements with regard to zoning, environmental and other regulations. these permits are also often subject to resistance from citizen or other groups and other political pressures. local communities and citizen groups, adjacent landowners or governmental agencies may oppose the issuance of a permit or approval we may need, allege violations of the permits under which we currently operate or laws or regulations to which we are subjected, or seek to impose liability on us for environmental damage. responding to these challenges has, at times, increased our costs and extended the time associated with establishing new facilities and expanding existing facilities. in addition, failure to receive regulatory and zoning approval may prohibit us from establishing new facilities or expanding existing facilities. our failure to obtain the required permits to operate our landfills could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. significant shortages in diesel fuel supply or increases in diesel fuel prices will increase our operating expenses. the price and supply of diesel fuel can fluctuate significantly based on international, political and economic circumstances, as well as other factors outside our control, such as actions by the organization of the petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns, weather conditions and environmental concerns. we need diesel fuel to run a significant portion of our collection and transfer trucks and our equipment used in our landfill operations. supply shortages could substantially increase our operating expenses. additionally, if fuel prices increase, our direct operating expenses increase and many of our vendors raise their prices to offset their own rising costs. we have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we may not be able to pass through all of our increased costs and some customers' contracts prohibit any pass-through of the increased costs. additionally, lawsuits have challenged our fuel and environmental charges included on our invoices. regardless of any offsetting surcharge programs, increased operating costs due to higher diesel fuel prices will decrease our income from operations margins. we have made significant investments in an extensive natural gas truck fleet, which makes us partially dependent on the availability of natural gas and fueling infrastructure and vulnerable to natural gas prices, and requirements to transition to other vehicle types could impair these investments. we operate a large fleet of natural gas vehicles, and we plan to continue to invest in these assets for our collection fleet. however, natural gas fueling infrastructure is not yet broadly available in north america; as a result, we have constructed and operate natural gas fueling stations, some of which also serve the public or pre-approved third parties. it will remain necessary for us to invest capital in fueling infrastructure in order to power our natural gas fleet. concerns have been raised about the potential for emissions from fueling infrastructure that serve natural gas-fueled vehicles. new regulation of, or restrictions on, natural gas fueling infrastructure or reductions in associated tax incentives could increase our operating costs. additionally, fluctuations in the price and supply of natural gas could substantially increase our operating expenses; a reduction in the existing cost differential between natural gas and diesel fuel could materially reduce 23 table of contents the benefits we anticipate from our investment in natural gas vehicles. further, our fuel surcharge program is currently indexed to diesel fuel prices, and price fluctuations for natural gas may not effectively be recovered by this program. there is increasing pressure to reduce the use of fossil fuel in the heavy-duty truck industry, and some cities and states are beginning to discuss requirements for using more advanced engine technology, such as electric powered vehicles, rather than natural gas or diesel vehicles. although current options for heavy-duty electric vehicles lack sufficient range and proven experience for our operations, requirements to transition to electric powered vehicles could increase our cost of vehicles and impair our investment in our natural gas fleet and infrastructure we are increasingly dependent on technology in our operations and if our technology fails, our business could be adversely affected. we may experience problems with the operation of our current information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, as well as the development and deployment of new information technology systems, that could adversely affect, or even temporarily disrupt, all or a portion of our operations until resolved. inabilities and delays in implementing new systems can also affect our ability to realize projected or expected cost savings. additionally, any systems failures could impede our ability to timely collect and report financial results in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. we are implementing a new enterprise resource planning system, and challenges with the implementation of the system may impact our business and operations. we are in the process of a complex, multi-year implementation of a new enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system. the erp system implementation requires the integration of the new erp system with multiple new and existing information systems and business processes and is designed to accurately maintain our books and records and provide information to our management team important to the operation of the business. such an implementation is a major undertaking from a financial, management, and personnel perspective. the implementation of the erp system may prove to be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and it is possible that the system will not yield the benefits anticipated. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and implementation of our new erp system could adversely affect our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations, resulting in negative impacts on our business and operations and subject us to potential liability. additionally, our implementation of the erp system involves greater utilization of third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. problems faced by us or our third-party providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition for future periods. a cybersecurity incident could negatively impact our business and our relationships with customers and expose us to increased liability. substantially all aspects of our business operations rely on digital technology. we use computers, mobile devices, social networking and other online platforms to connect with our employees and our customers. these uses give rise to cybersecurity risks, including security breach, espionage, system disruption, theft and inadvertent release of information. our business involves the storage and transmission of numerous classes of sensitive and/or confidential information and intellectual property, including customers' personal information, private information about employees, and financial and strategic information about the company and its business partners. we also rely on a payment card industry compliant third party to protect our customers' credit card information. we are regularly the target of attempted cyber intrusions, and we must commit substantial resources to continuously monitor and further develop our networks and infrastructure to prevent, detect, and address the risk of unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses and other events. our preventative measures and incident response efforts may not be effective in all cases. the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation, or release of sensitive and/or confidential information or intellectual property, or interference with our information technology systems or the technology systems of third parties on which we rely, could result in business disruption, direct financial loss, negative publicity, brand damage, alleged 24 table of contents violation of privacy laws, loss of customers, potential regulatory enforcement or private litigation liability and competitive disadvantage. further, as the company pursues its strategy to grow through acquisitions and to pursue new initiatives that improve our operations and cost structure, the company is also expanding and improving its information technologies, resulting in a larger technological presence and corresponding exposure to cybersecurity risk. certain new technologies, such as use of autonomous vehicles, remote-controlled equipment and virtual reality, present new and significant cybersecurity safety risks that must be analyzed and addressed before implementation. if we fail to assess and identify cybersecurity risks associated with acquisitions and new initiatives, we may become increasingly vulnerable to such risks. increasing regulatory focus on privacy and data protection issues and expanding laws could negatively impact our business, subject us to criticism and expose us to increased liability. the legislative and regulatory framework for privacy and data protection issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. we collect certain personally identifiable information and other sensitive information as integral parts of our business and in connection with providing services to our customers. we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations that govern the collection and use of such information obtained from individuals and businesses. these laws and regulations are inconsistent across jurisdictions and are subject to evolving interpretations. government officials, regulators, privacy advocates and class action attorneys are increasingly scrutinizing how companies collect, process, use, store, share and transmit personal data. we must continually monitor the development and adoption of new and emerging laws and regulations, such as the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ) that took effect on january 1, 2020. the ccpa, among other things, contains new disclosure obligations for businesses that collect personal information about california residents and affords those individuals new rights relating to their personal information that can expand the scope of our potential liability. we must commit substantial time and resources toward compliance with the ccpa and similar laws and regulations, any inability, or perceived inability, to adequately address privacy and data protection concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations, or other legal obligations, including at newly acquired companies, could subject us to regulatory enforcement, private litigation, public criticism, disrupt our operations, cause us to lose customers, result in additional costs and legal liability, damage our reputation, and otherwise harm our business. our operating expenses could increase as a result of labor unions organizing or changes in regulations related to labor unions. labor unions continually attempt to organize our employees, and these efforts will likely continue in the future. certain groups of our employees are currently represented by unions, and we have negotiated collective bargaining agreements with these unions. additional groups of employees may seek union representation in the future, and, if successful, would enhance organized labor's leverage to obtain higher than expected wage and benefits costs and resist the introduction of new technology and other initiatives, which can result in increased operating expenses and lower net income. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable collective bargaining agreements, our operating expenses could increase significantly as a result of work stoppages, including strikes. any of these matters could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we could face significant liabilities for withdrawal from multiemployer pension plans. we are a participating employer in a number of trustee-managed multiemployer defined benefit pension plans ( multiemployer pension plans ) for employees who are covered by collective bargaining agreements. in the event of our withdrawal from a multiemployer pension plan, we may incur expenses associated with our obligations for unfunded vested benefits at the time of the withdrawal. depending on various factors, future withdrawals could have a material adverse effect on results of operations or cash flows for a particular reporting period. see notes 10 and 11 to the consolidated financial statements for more information related to our participation in multiemployer pension plans. 25 table of contents our business is subject to operational and safety risks, including the risk of personal injury to employees and others. providing environmental and waste management services, including constructing and operating landfills, transfer stations, mrfs and other disposal facilities, involves risks such as truck accidents, equipment defects, malfunctions and failures. additionally, we closely monitor and manage landfills to minimize the risk of waste mass instability, releases of hazardous materials, and odors that are sometimes triggered by weather or natural disasters. there are also risks presented by the potential for subsurface heat reactions causing elevated landfill temperatures and increased production of leachate, landfill gas and odors. we also build and operate natural gas fueling stations, some of which also serve the public or third parties. operation of fueling stations and landfill gas collection and control systems involves additional risks of fire and explosion. any of these risks could potentially result in injury or death of employees and others, a need to shut down or reduce operation of facilities, increased operating expense and exposure to liability for pollution and other environmental damage, and property damage or destruction. while we seek to minimize our exposure to such risks through comprehensive training, compliance and response and recovery programs, as well as vehicle and equipment maintenance programs, if we were to incur substantial liabilities in excess of any applicable insurance, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. any such incidents could also tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. additionally, a major operational failure, even if suffered by a competitor, may bring enhanced scrutiny and regulation of our industry, with a corresponding increase in operating expense. we have substantial financial assurance and insurance requirements, and increases in the costs of obtaining adequate financial assurance, or the inadequacy of our insurance coverages, could negatively impact our liquidity and increase our liabilities. the amount of insurance we are required to maintain for environmental liability is governed by statutory requirements. we believe that the cost for such insurance is high relative to the coverage it would provide and, therefore, our coverages are generally maintained at the minimum statutorily-required levels. we face the risk of incurring additional costs for environmental damage if our insurance coverage is ultimately inadequate to cover those damages. we also carry a broad range of other insurance coverages that are customary for a company our size. we use these programs to mitigate risk of loss, thereby enabling us to manage our self-insurance exposure associated with claims. the inability of our insurers to meet their commitments in a timely manner and the effect of significant claims or litigation against insurance companies may subject us to additional risks. to the extent our insurers are unable to meet their obligations, or our own obligations for claims are more than we estimated, there could be a material adverse effect to our financial results. in addition, to fulfill our financial assurance obligations with respect to variable-rate tax-exempt debt, final capping, closure, post-closure and environmental remediation obligations, we generally obtain letters of credit or surety bonds, rely on insurance, including captive insurance, fund trust and escrow accounts or rely upon wm financial guarantees. we currently have in place all financial assurance instruments necessary for our operations. our financial position, which can be negatively affected by asset impairments, our credit profile and general economic factors, may adversely affect the cost of our current financial assurance instruments, and changes in regulations may impose stricter requirements on the types of financial assurance that will be accepted. additionally, in the event we are unable to obtain sufficient surety bonding, letters of credit or third-party insurance coverage at reasonable cost, or one or more states cease to view captive insurance as adequate coverage, we would need to rely on other forms of financial assurance. it is possible that we could be forced to deposit cash to collateralize our obligations. other forms of financial assurance could be more expensive to obtain, and any requirements to use cash to support our obligations would negatively impact our liquidity and capital resources and could affect our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. we may record material charges against our earnings due to impairments to our assets. in accordance with u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ), we capitalize certain expenditures and advances relating to disposal site development, expansion projects, acquisitions, software development costs and other projects. events that have in the past and may in the future lead to an impairment include, but are not limited to, shutting down a facility or operation or abandoning a development project or the denial of an expansion permit. additionally, 26 table of contents declining waste volumes and development of, and customer preference for, alternatives to traditional waste disposal could warrant asset impairments. if we determine an asset or expansion project is impaired, we will charge against earnings any unamortized capitalized expenditures and advances relating to such asset or project reduced by any portion of the capitalized costs that we estimate will be recoverable, through sale or otherwise. we also carry a significant amount of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheets, which is required to be assessed for impairment annually, and more frequently in the case of certain triggering events. we have in the past and may in the future be required to incur charges against earnings if such impairment tests indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. any such charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our capital requirements and our business strategy could increase our expenses, cause us to change our growth and development plans, or result in an inability to maintain our desired credit profile. if economic conditions or other risks and uncertainties cause a significant reduction in our cash flows from operations, we may reduce or suspend capital expenditures, growth and acquisition activity, implementation of our business strategy, dividend declarations or share repurchases. we may choose to incur indebtedness to pay for these activities, although our access to capital markets is not assured and we may not be able to incur indebtedness at a cost that is consistent with current borrowing rates. we also may need to incur indebtedness to refinance scheduled debt maturities, and it is possible that the cost of financing could increase significantly, thereby increasing our expenses and decreasing our net income. further, our ability to execute our financial strategy and our ability to incur indebtedness is somewhat dependent upon our ability to maintain investment grade credit ratings on our senior debt. the credit rating process is contingent upon our credit profile and several other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including methodologies established and interpreted by third-party rating agencies. if we were unable to maintain our investment grade credit ratings in the future, our interest expense would increase and our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms could be adversely affected. additionally, we have $1.0 billion of debt as of december 31, 2019 that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months because of the impact of our tax-exempt bonds. if interest rates increase, our interest expense would also increase, lowering our net income and decreasing our cash flow. we may use our $3.5 billion revolving credit facility to meet our cash needs, to the extent available, until maturity in november 2024. as of december 31, 2019, we had no outstanding borrowings and $412 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility, leaving unused and available credit capacity of $3.1 billion. in the event of a default under our credit facility, we could be required to immediately repay all outstanding borrowings and make cash deposits as collateral for all obligations the facility supports, which we may not be able to do. additionally, any such default could cause a default under many of our other credit agreements and debt instruments. without waivers from lenders party to those agreements, any such default would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to operate. the impact of climate change, and the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases, could increase our costs to operate. we continue to assess the physical risks to our operations from the effects of climate change. although we have made investments to mitigate risk associated with severe storm events, damage to our facilities or disruption of service caused by more frequent or more severe storms associated with climate extremes could negatively impact operating results. we have also identified risk to our assets and our employees associated with drought or water scarcity, flooding, extreme heat and rain events, and fire conditions associated with climate change. for example, wildfires influenced by climate change can damage landfill infrastructure such as gas collection systems, flooding in low-lying areas enhanced by sea level rise can result in greater maintenance expenses at our facilities and service disruption, and more frequent or extreme rain events can erode the protective vegetative caps on our landfills and generate increased volumes of leachate to manage. those areas of the country most prone to these occurrences have protocols in place, or are developing protocols to address these conditions, including employee safety, driver training, and equipment and facility protection protocols. we have incurred and will incur costs to develop and implement these protocols, and these protocols may not be effective in offsetting these risks. additionally, the actions of others in response to climate change effects, such as the rolling power blackouts implemented in california in 2019 due to wildfire risks, can result in service disruptions and increase our costs to operate. 27 table of contents our landfill operations emit methane, identified as a ghg. there are a number of legislative and regulatory efforts at the state, provincial, regional and federal levels to cap and/or curtail the emission of ghgs to ameliorate the effect of climate change. we continue to monitor these efforts and the potential impacts to our operations. should comprehensive federal climate change legislation be enacted, we expect it could impose costs on our operations that might not be offset by the revenue increases associated with our lower-carbon service options, the materiality of which we cannot predict. in 2010, the epa published a prevention of significant deterioration and title v ghg tailoring rule, which expanded the epa's federal air permitting authority to include the six ghgs. the rule sets new thresholds for ghg emissions that define when clean air act permits are required. the current requirements of these rules have not significantly affected our operations or cash flows, due to the tailored thresholds and exclusions of certain emissions from regulation; however, if certain changes to these regulations were enacted, such as lowering the thresholds or the inclusion of biogenic emissions, then the amendments could have an adverse effect on our operating costs. the seasonal nature of our business, severe weather events resulting from climate change and event driven special projects cause our results to fluctuate, and prior performance is not necessarily indicative of our future results. our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in summer months, primarily due to the higher construction and demolition waste volumes. the volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. service disruptions caused by severe storms, extended periods of inclement weather or climate extremes resulting from climate change can significantly affect the operating results of the areas affected. on the other hand, certain destructive weather and climate conditions, such as wildfires in the western u.s. and hurricanes that most often impact our operations in the southern and eastern u.s. during the second half of the year, can increase our revenues in the areas affected as a result of the waste volumes generated by these events. while weather-related and other event driven special projects can boost revenues through additional work for a limited time, due to significant start-up costs and other factors, such revenue can generate earnings at comparatively lower margins. for these and other reasons, operating results in any interim period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and operating results for any historical period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for a future period. our stock price may be negatively impacted by interim variations in our results. we could be subject to significant fines and penalties, and our reputation could be adversely affected, if our businesses, or third parties with whom we have a relationship, were to fail to comply with u.s. or foreign laws or regulations. some of our projects and new business may be conducted in countries where corruption has historically been prevalent. it is our policy to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws, such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, and with applicable local laws of the foreign countries in which we operate, and we monitor our local partners' compliance with such laws as well. our reputation may be adversely affected if we were reported to be associated with corrupt practices or if we or our local partners failed to comply with such laws. such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. additionally, violations of such laws could subject us to significant fines and penalties. 28 table of contents currently pending or future litigation or governmental proceedings could result in material adverse consequences, including judgments or settlements. from time to time we are involved in governmental proceedings relating to the conduct of our business. we are also party to civil litigation. as a large company with operations across the u.s. and canada, we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes and claims arising in the ordinary course of our business. actions that have been filed against us, and that may be filed against us in the future, include personal injury, property damage, commercial, customer, and employment-related claims, including purported state and national class action lawsuits related to: alleged environmental contamination, including releases of hazardous materials and odors; sales and marketing practices, customer service agreements, prices and fees; and federal and state wage and hour and other laws. the timing of the final resolutions to these types of matters is often uncertain. additionally, the possible outcomes or resolutions to these matters could include adverse judgments or settlements, either of which could require substantial payments, adversely affecting our liquidity. we may experience adverse impacts on our reported results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations. our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our reported financial position or operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our reported operating results in future periods. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, certain commodity prices and canadian currency rates. from time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. the company had no derivatives outstanding as of december 31, 2019. interest rate exposure our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities. as of december 31, 2019, we had $13.6 billion of long-term debt, excluding the impacts of accounting for debt issuance costs, discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments attributable to terminated interest rate derivatives. we have $1.0 billion of debt that is exposed to changes in market interest rates within the next 12 months comprised of (i) $669 million of tax-exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that expire within the next 12 months and (ii) $355 million of variable-rate tax-exempt bonds that are subject to repricing on either a daily or weekly basis. we currently estimate that a 100-basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable-rate debt obligations would increase our 2020 interest expense by $7 million. our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed-rate tax-exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds 12 months. the fair value of our fixed-rate debt obligations can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change. we performed a sensitivity analysis to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk-sensitive debt instruments. this analysis is inherently limited because it reflects a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. an instantaneous, 100-basis point 59 table of contents increase in interest rates across all maturities attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our debt by approximately $1.0 billion as of december 31, 2019. we are also exposed to interest rate market risk from our cash and cash equivalent balances, as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. these assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in u.s. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value of these assets due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant as the fair value generally approximates our cost basis. we also invest a portion of our restricted trust and escrow account balances in available-for-sale securities, including u.s. treasury securities, u.s. agency securities, municipal securities, mortgage- and asset-backed securities and equity securities, which generally mature over the next 10 years. commodity price exposure in the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including old corrugated cardboard, old newsprint and plastics; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in many of the markets in which we operate. we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues may also increase or decrease. currency rate exposure we have operations in canada as well as certain support functions in india. where significant, we have quantified and described the impact of foreign currency translation on components of income, including operating revenue and operating expenses. however, the impact of foreign currency has not materially affected our results of operations. 60 table of contents