quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has exposure to several types of market risk: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and stock prices. the company neither holds nor issues financial instruments for trading purposes. the following sections provide quantitative information on the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and stock price risk. it makes use of sensitivity analyses that are inherently limited in estimating actual losses in fair value that can occur from changes in market conditions. foreign currency exchange rates the company conducts operations in four principal currencies: the u.s. dollar, the british pound sterling, the euro and the australian dollar. these currencies operate as the functional currency for the company u.s., european and australian operations, respectively. cash is managed centrally within each of the three regions with net earnings reinvested locally and working capital requirements met from existing liquid funds. to the extent such funds are not sufficient to meet working capital requirements, drawdowns in the appropriate local currency are available either under the company credit agreement or from intercompany borrowings. since earnings of the company australian and european operations are expected to be reinvested in those businesses indefinitely, except for any one time repatriation in conjunction with the american jobs creation act, the company does not hedge its investment in the net assets of those foreign operations. at june 30, 2005, the company outstanding financial instruments with foreign currency exchange rate risk exposure had an aggregate fair value of $106 million (including the company non-u.s. dollar-denominated fixed rate debt). the potential increase in the fair values of these instruments resulting from a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately $19 million at june 30, 2005. interest rates the company current financing arrangements and facilities include $11 billion of outstanding debt with fixed interest and the credit agreement, which carries variable interest. fixed and variable rate debts are impacted differently by changes in interest rates. a change in the interest rate or yield of fixed rate debt will only impact the fair market value of such debt, while a change in the interest rate of variable debt will impact interest expense as well as the amount of cash required to service such debt. as of june 30, 2005 substantially all of the company financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk was denominated in u.s. dollars and had an aggregate fair market value of $12.4 billion. the potential change in fair value for these financial instruments from an adverse 10% change in quoted interest rates across all maturities, often referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve, would be approximately $576 million at june 30, 2005. stock prices the company has common stock investments in several publicly traded companies that are subject to market price volatility. these investments principally represent the company equity affiliates and have an aggregate fair value of approximately $15,654 million as of june 30, 2005. a hypothetical decrease in the market price of these investments of 10% would result in a fair value of approximately $14,089 million. such a hypothetical decrease would result in a decrease in comprehensive income of approximately $19 million, as any changes in fair value of the company equity affiliates are not recognized unless deemed other-than-temporary, as these investments are accounted for under the equity method. in accordance with sfas no. 133, the company has recorded the conversion feature embedded in its exchangeable debentures in other liabilities. at june 30, 2005, the fair value of this conversion feature is $152 million and is sensitive to movements in the share price of one of the company publicly traded equity affiliates. a 10% increase in the price of the underlying stock, holding other factors constant, would increase the fair value of the call option by approximately $42 million. 69 table of contentsrisk factors 27 risk factors in this annual report. the company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the company with the sec. this section should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements of the company and related notes set forth elsewhere in this annual report. business overview filmed entertainment the company engages in the development, production and worldwide distribution of feature films and television programs. feature film production and distribution one of the world largest producers and distributors of motion pictures, fox filmed entertainment ( ffe ), produces, acquires and distributes motion pictures throughout the world under a variety of arrangements. during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, ffe placed 31, 23 and 24 motion pictures, respectively, in general release in the united states. those motion pictures were produced and/or distributed by the following units of ffe: twentieth century fox and fox 2000, which produce and acquire motion pictures for mainstream audiences; fox searchlight pictures, which produces and acquires specialized motion pictures; and twentieth century fox animation, which produces feature length animated motion pictures. motion pictures produced and/or distributed by ffe in the united states and international territories since the beginning of fiscal 2004 include league of extraordinary gentlemen , master and commander (together with universal studios and miramax film corp.), cheaper by the dozen , man on fire (together with regency entertainment (usa), inc. ( new regency )), the day after tomorrow , sideways , garfield , dodgeball: a true underdog story , napoleon dynamite (together with paramount pictures corporation and mtv), i, robot , robots , alien vs. predator , hide and seek , kingdom of heaven , star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith (distributed for lucasfilm ltd.), mr. and mrs. smith (distributed for new regency), fantastic four, walk the line, ice age: the meltdown, x-men: the last stand, the devil wears prada, the omen, the ringer, the hills have eyes and thank you for smoking . ffe has already released or currently plans to release approximately 34 motion pictures in the united states in fiscal 2007, including a good year, eragon, night at the museum, fantastic four: rise of the silver surfer, little miss sunshine and i think i love my wife . in addition, pursuant to an agreement with monarchy enterprises holdings b.v. ( meh ), the parent company of new regency in which the company has a 20% interest, and certain of meh subsidiaries, ffe distributes certain new regency films and all films co-financed by ffe and new regency in all media worldwide, excluding certain international territories with respect to theatrical and home video rights and most international territories with respect to television rights. among its fiscal 2007 releases, ffe currently expects to distribute two new regency films. 2 table of contents motion picture companies, such as ffe, typically seek to generate revenues from various distribution channels. ffe derives its worldwide motion picture revenues primarily from four basic sources (set forth in general chronology of exploitation): (i) distribution of motion pictures for theatrical exhibition in the united states and canada and markets outside of the united states and canada ( international markets); (ii) distribution of motion pictures in various home media formats; (iii) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on pay-per-view, video-on-demand and premium pay television programming services; and (iv) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on free television networks, other broadcast program services, independent television stations and basic cable programming services, including certain services which are affiliates of the company. the company does not always have rights in all media of exhibition to all motion pictures which it releases, and does not necessarily distribute a given motion picture in all of the foregoing media in all markets. the company believes that the pre-release marketing of a feature film is an integral part of its motion picture distribution strategy and generally begins marketing efforts three to six months in advance of a film release date in any given territory. the company markets and distributes its films worldwide principally through its own distribution and marketing companies. through twentieth century fox home entertainment, inc., the company distributes motion pictures and other programming produced by units of ffe, its affiliates and other producers in the united states, canada and international markets in all home media formats, including the sale and rental of dvds. in fiscal 2006, the domestic home entertainment division released or re-released approximately 580 produced and acquired titles, including 31 new ffe film releases, approximately 362 catalog titles and approximately 187 television and non-theatrical titles. in international markets, the company distributed, produced and acquired titles both directly and through foreign distribution channels, with approximately 642 releases in fiscal 2006, including approximately 24 new ffe film releases, over 495 catalog titles and approximately 123 television and non-theatrical releases. during fiscal 2006, the company broadened its international video distribution agreement with metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ) into a worldwide home video distribution arrangement, commencing september 1, 2006 for most territories. the company released approximately 350 mgm home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs internationally in fiscal 2006 under the existing agreement. units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs in the united states, canada and international markets to various third party and certain affiliated subscription pay television, pay-per-view and video-on-demand services. the license agreements reflecting the subscription pay television arrangements generally provide for a specified number of exhibitions of the program during a fixed term in exchange for a license fee which is based on a variety of factors, including the box office performance of each program and the number of subscribers to the service or system. the license agreements reflecting the pay-per-view and video-on-demand services arrangements generally provide for a license fee based on a percentage of the licensee gross receipts from the exhibition of the program, and in some cases, a guaranteed minimum fee. in addition, these agreements generally provide for a minimum number of scheduled pay-per-view exhibitions and a minimum video-on-demand exhibition period during a fixed term. among third-party license agreements that units of ffe have in place in the united states for television exhibition of their motion pictures are exclusive subscription pay television license agreements with home box office ( hbo ), providing for the licensing of films initially released for theatrical exhibition through the year 2009, as well as arrangements with starz encore group. units of ffe also license motion pictures in the united states to direct broadcast satellite ( dbs ) pay-per-view services operated by directv and echostar communications corporation, as well as to pay-per-view and video-on-demand services operated by in demand l.l.c. in addition, units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs to a number of distribution entities for electronic sell-through (also referred to as licensed electronic download) over the internet, enabling consumers in the united states to acquire the right to permanently retain such programs. in international markets, units of ffe license motion pictures to leading third-party pay television services and pay-per-view services, as well as to emerging video-on-demand services and programming services operated by various affiliated entities. 3 table of contents competition . motion picture production and distribution are highly competitive businesses. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. the number of motion pictures released by the company competitors, particularly the other major film studios, in any given period may create an oversupply of product in the market, which may reduce the company shares of gross box office admissions and may make it more difficult for the company motion pictures to succeed. the commercial success of the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by the company is substantially affected by the public unpredictable response to them. the competitive risks affecting the company home entertainment business include the number of home entertainment titles released by the company competitors which may create an oversupply of product in the market, competition among home media formats, such as dvds, and other methods of distribution, such as video-on-demand services. in addition, television networks are now producing more programs internally, which may reduce those networks demand for programming from other parties. the company faces ongoing risks associated with controlling unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs. for a further discussion of issues relating to unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs, see intellectual property. television programming, production and distribution twentieth century fox television ( tcftv ) . during the past fiscal year, tcftv produced television programs for the fox broadcasting company ( fox ), abc television network ( abc ), cbs broadcasting, inc. ( cbs ), nbc television network ( nbc ), e! entertainment television, inc. ( e! ), the wb television network ( the wb ) and the fx network llc ( fx ) .. tcftv currently produces, or has orders to produce, episodes of the following television series: boston legal for abc; how i met your mother, shark and the unit for cbs; 24 , american dad , bones , family guy , futurama , king of the hill , the loop , prison break , the simpsons , standoff, vanished, the wedding album (a co-production with fox television studios) and the winner for fox; my name is earl and the singles table for nbc; reba for the cw; and the simple life for e!. generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes for exhibition on the network during the license period. all other distribution rights, including international and off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by tcftv, utilized by other units of the company or sold to third parties. generally, television programs are produced under contracts that provide for license fees which may cover only a portion of the anticipated production costs. as these costs have increased in recent years, the resulting deficit between production costs and license fees for domestic first-run programming has also increased. therefore, additional licensing is often critical to the financial success of a series. successful u.s. network television series are, for example, (i) licensed for first-run exhibition in canadian and international markets, (ii) released in seasonal dvd box sets, (iii) licensed for off-network exhibition in the united states (including in syndication or to cable programmers) and (iv) licensed for syndication in international markets. generally, a series must be broadcast for at least three to four television seasons for there to be a sufficient number of episodes to offer the series in syndication in the united states or to cable and dbs programmers in the united states. the decision of a television network to continue a series through an entire television season or to renew a series for another television season depends largely on the series audience ratings. twentieth television . twentieth television licenses both television programming and feature films for domestic syndication to television stations and basic cable services in the united states. twentieth television distributes a program portfolio that includes original reality and first-run television programming produced by its production companies for sales to the fox television stations, other local stations, the company cable network businesses and all other basic cable networks. twentieth television will launch the new general entertainment broadcast network mynetworktv in september 2006, which will provide primetime programming to the company nine stations currently affiliated with upn and its one currently independent station, as well as to numerous affiliate stations. twentieth television is the exclusive supplier of mynetworktv two hour-long 4 table of contents primetime dramas to be broadcast six nights a week. the dramas first 13-week installments to launch in september 2006 include desire and fashion house . twentieth television derives revenue from off-network, theatrical and first-run program sales in the form of cash license fees paid by both broadcast and cable licensees, and from the sales of national advertising units retained by twentieth television in its programs. twentieth television also sells advertising spots for directv. fox television studios ( ftvs ) . ftvs is a program supplier to major u.s. and international broadcast and cable networks. ftvs is currently producing: duets , premiering august 2006; the late-night talkshow with spike feresten , premiering september 2006; and the wedding album (a co-production with tcftv), premiering early 2007, all for the fox broadcasting company. ftvs also produces the girls next door for e! and inked for a&amp;e television networks ( a&amp;e ). through regency television (a partnership with new regency) productions includes help me help you , premiering fall 2006 for abc. ftvs made-for-tv movies include flight 93 for a&amp;e and a little thing called murder for lifetime. in fiscal 2006, ftvs international format production arm, fox world, consulted on over 40 series and specials in production around the world. ftvs maintains production studios in the united kingdom, australia and new zealand. competition . similar to motion picture production and distribution, production and distribution of television programming is extremely competitive. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. in addition, television networks have affiliated production companies from which they are increasingly obtaining their programming, which has reduced the demand for programming from other non-affiliated parties. motion picture and television libraries the company motion picture and television library (the fox library ) consists of varying rights to several thousand previously released motion pictures and many well-known television programs. the motion pictures in the fox library include many successful and well-known titles, such as the sound of music , mrs. doubtfire , planet of the apes , dr. dolittle , the x-men trilogy, the day after tomorrow , the ice age series, i, robot , sideways, walk the line, fantastic four and eight of the top 25 domestic box office grossing films of all time, which are titanic (together with paramount pictures corporation), star wars , star wars episode i: the phantom menace , star wars episode ii: attack of the clones , star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith , return of the jedi , independence day and the empire strikes back . the fox library contains varying rights to many television series and made-for-television motion pictures. the television programming in the fox library consists of such classic series as batman , the mary tyler moore show , m*a*s*h , hill street blues , doogie howser, m.d. , l.a. law , the wonder years , picket fences , room 222 , trapper john, m.d. , daniel boone , the x-files , buffy the vampire slayer and nypd blue , as well as such current hits as the simpsons , king of the hill , 24 , the shield , family guy , american idol , reba, my name is earl, how i met your mother, boston legal and prison break . television through its subsidiaries, the company is engaged in the operation of broadcast television stations and the development, production and distribution of network and television programming. fox television stations fox television stations currently operates 35 full power stations, including stations located in nine of the top ten largest designated market areas ( dmas ). fox television stations operates two stations in nine dmas, including new york, los angeles and chicago, the first, second and third largest dmas, respectively. of the 35 full power stations, 25 stations are affiliates of fox broadcasting company ( fox affiliates ). for a description of the programming offered to fox affiliates, see fox broadcasting company. in 5 table of contents addition, fox television stations owns and operates stations that are currently affiliated with the upn network ( upn ) in nine markets, including four of the top ten dmas, and an additional independent station. the affiliation agreements with upn expire at the end of the 2005-2006 season. upn provides approximately 13 hours of programming a week, including two-hour prime-time programming blocks five nights a week, to its affiliates. in september 2006, the fox television stations that are currently upn affiliates and the independent station will become affiliates of mynetworktv, inc. ( mynetworktv ). for a description of the programming offered by affiliates of mynetworktv, see twentieth television above. the following table lists certain information about each fox television station. unless otherwise noted, all stations are fox affiliates. dma/rank station channel/type percentage of u.s. television households reached (1) new york, ny 1 wnyw 5 vhf 6.7 % wwor (2) 9 vhf los angeles, ca 2 kttv 11 vhf 5.0 % kcop (2) 13 vhf chicago, il 3 wfld 32 uhf 3.1 % wpwr (2) 50 uhf philadelphia, pa 4 wtxf 29 uhf 2.7 % boston, ma 5 wfxt 25 uhf 2.2 % dallas, tx 7 kdfw 4 vhf 2.1 % kdfi (3) 27 uhf washington, dc 8 wttg 5 vhf 2.0 % wdca (2) 20 uhf atlanta, ga 9 waga 5 vhf 1.9 % houston, tx 10 kriv 26 uhf 1.8 % ktxh (2) 20 uhf detroit, mi 11 wjbk 2 vhf 1.8 % tampa, fl 12 wtvt 13 vhf 1.6 % phoenix, az 14 ksaz 10 vhf 1.5 % kutp (2) 45 uhf minneapolis, mn (4) 15 kmsp 9 vhf 1.5 % wftc (2) 29 uhf cleveland, oh 16 wjw 8 vhf 1.4 % denver, co (5) 18 kdvr 31 uhf 1.3 % orlando, fl 20 wofl 35 uhf 1.2 % wrbw (2) 65 uhf st. louis, mo 21 ktvi 2 vhf 1.1 % baltimore, md 24 wutb (2) 24 uhf 1.0 % kansas city, mo 31 wdaf 4 vhf 0.8 % milwaukee, wi 33 witi 6 vhf 0.8 % salt lake city, ut 36 kstu 13 vhf 0.7 % birmingham, al 40 wbrc 6 vhf 0.7 % memphis, tn 44 whbq 13 vhf 0.6 % greensboro, nc 47 wghp 8 vhf 0.6 % austin, tx 53 ktbc 7 vhf 0.5 % gainesville, fl 162 wogx 51 uhf 0.1 % total: 44.7 % source: nielsen media research, january 2006 (1) vhf television stations transmit on channels 2 through 13 and uhf television stations on channels 14 through 69. uhf television stations in many cases have a weaker signal and therefore do not achieve the 6 table of contents same coverage as vhf television stations. to address this disparity, the federal communications commission (the fcc ) applies a discount (the uhf discount ) which attributes only 50% of the television households in a local television market to the audience reach of a uhf television station for purposes of calculating whether that station owner complies with the national station ownership cap imposed by fcc regulations and by statute. in addition, the coverage of two commonly owned stations in the same market is only counted once. the percentages listed are rounded and do not take into account the uhf discount. for more information regarding the fcc national station ownership cap, see regulation television. (2) upn affiliate through 2005-2006 season. will become a mynetworktv affiliate in september 2006. (3) independent station and secondary fox affiliate, carrying children programming provided by the fox broadcasting company. will become a mynetworktv affiliate in september 2006. (4) the company also owns and operates kftc, channel 26, bemidji, mn as a satellite station of wftc, channel 29, minneapolis, mn. (5) the company also owns and operates kfct, channel 22, fort collins, co, as a satellite station of kdvr, channel 31, denver, co. fox broadcasting company ( fox ) fox has 201 fox affiliates, including 25 full power television stations that are owned by subsidiaries of the company, which reach, along with fox net, a news corporation-owned cable service which reaches areas not served by a free over-the-air fox affiliate, approximately 98% of all u.s. television households. in general, each week fox regularly delivers to its affiliates 15 hours of prime-time programming and one hour of late-night programming on saturday. fox prime-time programming features such series as the simpsons , prison break, bones , the oc , 24 and house ; unscripted series such as american idol ; and various movies and specials. in addition, a significant component of fox programming consists of sports programming, with fox providing to its affiliates live coverage (including post-season) of the national football conference of the national football league (the nfl ) and major league baseball ( mlb ), as well as live coverage of the premier racing series (the nextel cup and the busch series) of the national association of stock car auto racing ( nascar ). fox also provides a four-hour block of children programming on saturday morning, programmed by 4kids entertainment ( 4kids ), a children entertainment company. fox agreement with 4kids extends until the 2007-2008 broadcast season. fox prime-time line-up is intended to appeal primarily to target audiences of 18 to 49-year old adults, the demographic group that advertisers seek to reach most often. during the 2005-2006 traditional september to may broadcast season, fox ranked first in prime-time programming based on viewership of adults aged 18 to 49 (fox had a 4.1 rating and an 11 share, abc had a 4.0 rating and an 11 share, cbs had a 3.8 rating and a 10 share and nbc had a 3.3 rating and a 9 share). the median age of the fox viewer is 41 years, as compared to 49 years for nbc, 46 years for abc and 51 years for cbs. fox obtains programming from major television studios and independent television production companies pursuant to license agreements. the terms of those agreements generally provide fox with the right to broadcast a television series for up to a minimum of four seasons. fox licenses its film programming from major film studios and independent film production companies. national sports programming, such as nfl, mlb and nascar programming, is obtained under license agreements with professional sports leagues or organizations. fox current licenses with the nfl, mlb, and nascar extend until the 2011 nfl season, the 2013 mlb season and the 2014 nascar season. fox also has the right to broadcast the national collegiate athletic association bowl championship series from 2007 through 2010. fox provides programming to the fox affiliates in accordance with affiliation agreements of varying durations, which grant to each affiliate the right to broadcast network television programming on the affiliated station. such agreements typically run three or more years and have staggered expiration dates. these affiliation agreements generally require fox affiliates to carry fox programming in all time periods in which fox programming is offered to those affiliates, subject to certain exceptions stated in the affiliation agreements. 7 table of contents competition. the network television broadcasting business is highly competitive. fox directly competes for programming viewers and advertising with the abc, nbc, cbs, upn and the wb networks (upn and the wb will become the cw in september 2006). abc, nbc and cbs each broadcasts a significantly greater number of hours of programming than fox and, accordingly, may be able to designate or change time periods in which programming is to be broadcast with greater flexibility than fox. fox also competes with other non-network sources of television service, including cable television and dbs services. other sources of competition may include home video exhibition, digital video recorders ( dvr ), the internet and home computer usage. in addition, future technological developments may affect competition within the television marketplace. each of the stations operated by fox television stations also competes for advertising revenues with television stations, radio and cable systems in its respective market area and with other advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail and internet websites. all of the stations operated by fox television stations are located in highly competitive markets. additional elements which are material to the competitive position of each of the television stations include management experience, authorized power and assigned frequency of that station. competition for sales of broadcast advertising time is based primarily on the anticipated and actually delivered size and demographic characteristics of audiences as determined by various rating services, price, the time of day when the advertising is to be broadcast, competition from the other broadcast networks, cable television systems, dbs services and other media and general economic conditions. competition for audiences is based primarily on the selection of programming, the acceptance of which is dependent on the reaction of the viewing public which is often difficult to predict. star the company, through its wholly-owned subsidiary star group limited ( star ), engages in the development, production and broadcasting of television programming to 53 countries throughout asia. star currently broadcasts in nine languages and across 59 channels. star divides its markets into four regions: india; mainland china; taiwan; and the rest of asia. star estimates that approximately 300 million people in 120 million households have access to star owned and affiliated channels. star owned and affiliated channels are also distributed in africa, europe, australia and north america. star programming is primarily distributed via satellite to local cable and direct-to-home ( dth ) operators for distribution to their subscribers. star is one of the leading providers of television programming in asia. of the 59 channels offered by star, 27 channels are wholly-owned and operated by star, including xing kong wei shi ( xing kong ) (xing kong is a mainland china-oriented general entertainment channel that is broadcast in southern china where star has been granted official landing rights), star plus (the highest rated cable channel in india), star movies (among the highest rated international movie channels in india) and star chinese channel (one of the leading general entertainment cable channels in taiwan). star channels are distributed both on a pay television and free over-the-air basis. in addition, star provides 32 channels owned and operated by third parties or joint ventures between the company and other entities, including ngc networks asia (national geographic), phoenix satellite television holdings limited ( phoenix ), espn star sports and media content &amp; communications services (india) private limited ( mccs ). star currently owns an approximate 38% interest in phoenix, a listed company on the stock exchange of hong kong which owns and operates chinese language general entertainment channels including phoenix chinese channel, phoenix chinese news and entertainment channel and phoenix north america chinese channel, phoenix infonews channel (a 24-hour news channel) and phoenix movies channel (a movie channel), all of which are targeted at chinese audiences around the world. phoenix channels are primarily distributed on a free over-the-air or encrypted basis in asia and europe and via pay television platforms in the united states. star has entered into an agreement to dispose of approximately 20% of its interest in phoenix to china mobile (hong kong) group limited for approximately $164 million, which is expected to be completed in august 2006. espn star sports, a 50/50 joint venture between star and espn, 8 table of contents is the leading sports broadcaster in asia and operates 13 channels in different languages. mccs, an approximate 26% star owned joint venture with the anand bazaar patrika group, owns and operates a 24-hour hindi news and current affairs channel (star news) and star ananda, a news and current affairs channel in bengali. in india, star has expanded into regional language programming with vijay, a tamil general entertainment channel, and the bengali star ananda. star also owns an approximate 26% stake in balaji, which is one of the largest television content production companies in india, the shares of which are listed on the stock exchange, mumbai and the national stock exchange of india. balaji currently produces many hindi-language serials broadcast on star plus. in 2004, star entered into a joint venture with the tata group, one of india leading conglomerates, to establish a dth platform in india. star holds a 20% stake in this joint venture. the joint venture, tata sky limited ( tata sky ), was granted its dth license by the government of india in march 2006. tata sky is expected to commercially launch its dth service in late 2006. star also has an approximate 26% stake in hathway cable &amp; datacom private limited, a multi-system cable operator in india which also provides broadband internet services. star has minority interests in various cable systems throughout taiwan, in which the koos group, a leading taiwan business conglomerate, also has an interest. as of march 2006, these various cable systems had over 2.2 million homes passed and approximately 1.2 million subscribers. the koos group and star also formed a joint venture company in which star has a 20% interest, to fund the digitalization and encryption of certain taiwan cable systems in which both the koos group and star have ownership interests. this digitalization and encryption involves the installation of a digital set-top box in each subscriber home through which cable operators can offer additional pay television channels and simple interactive services. in other parts of asia, star holds an almost 50% interest in channel [v] thailand, a 24-hour music and youth-oriented channel that is mostly in the thai language. in november 2005, the company completed the acquisition of an approximate 20% interest in pt cakrawala andalas televisis ( antv ), an indonesian free over-the-air terrestrial television broadcaster. the primary sources of programming on star owned and affiliated channels include exclusive rights to broadcast over many territories in asia: (i) original indian and chinese television programming produced or commissioned by star; (ii) many of asia most popular sporting events, such as english premier league soccer; (iii) feature films distributed by twentieth century fox, buena vista international, dreamworks skg, mgm/united artists, universal studios, sony pictures, warner bros. studios and paramount pictures; (iv) an extensive contemporary chinese film library comprising over 600 titles; (v) an extensive hindi film library comprising over 350 titles; and (vi) high-definition chinese telefeature films or programs produced by star. star other sources of programming include rights to broadcast music videos, as well as music and youth-oriented programming, carried on channel [v], star 24-hour music television service. competition. generally, star competes against various channels for a share of subscription, distribution, channel position, ratings as well as programming. india. in india, the pay television broadcasting industry has several participants. competition for star indian entertainment channels in the pay television sector is provided by both pay and free over-the-air channels since they are delivered by common cable. the competition is mainly from zee telefilms, sony entertainment television, sahara tv, sun network and doordarshan (the government-owned broadcasting company which currently has a monopoly on terrestrial broadcasting). star competes against primarily zee telefilms and sony entertainment television in bidding for both hindi film and programming rights and, through its 50% owned sports joint venture with espn star sports, for sports broadcast rights, such as cricket rights. china. in mainland china, star competes primarily in two distinct markets for which it has received government approvals to distribute its services. one is among three-star and above hotels and other approved 9 table of contents organizations and institutions that are allowed to receive overseas satellite television channels throughout mainland china. the second is among general households in guangdong that can view local chinese channels, as well as xing kong channel via cable networks. in the hotel and other institutional market, star competes mainly with foreign satellite television providers, such as discovery, hbo, axn, mtv and cetv. in the guangdong cable market, star competes with cetv and other chinese and hong-kong based satellite television channels. taiwan. in taiwan, star competes against various local and foreign satellite channels, depending on programming genre. cable network programming the company holds interests in cable network programming businesses that produce and license news, sports, general entertainment and movie programming for distribution to cable network systems and dbs providers in the united states and internationally. fox news channel. fox news channel ( fox news ) is a 24-hour all news national cable channel which is currently available to approximately 89 million households according to nielsen media research. fox news also produces a weekend political commentary show, fox news sunday , for broadcast on fox, and the nationally syndicated daytime program, geraldo at large . fox news, through its fox news edge service, licenses news feeds to fox affiliates and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts. fox news also produces and runs the website, foxnews.com, and the national fox news radio network which licenses news updates and long form programs to local radio stations, as well as satellite radio providers. fox sports net . fox sports net, inc. ( fsn ) is the largest regional sports network ( rsn ) programmer in the united states, focusing on live professional and major collegiate home team sports events. fsn sports programming business consists primarily of ownership interests in 16 rsns (the fsn rsns ) and national sports programming, which operates fox sports net ( fox sports net ), a national sports programming service. fox sports net provides its affiliated rsns with 24-hour national sports programming, featuring original and licensed sports-related programming and live and replay sporting events. fsn is also affiliated with, through fox sports net, an additional six rsns (the fsn affiliated rsns ). the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns reach approximately 85 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research and have rights to telecast live games of 64 of 82 u.s. professional sports teams in mlb, the national basketball association ( nba ) and the national hockey league ( nhl ); numerous collegiate conferences; and college and high school sports teams. in april 2006, the company acquired turner regional entertainment networks, inc. ( treni ), and its wholly-owned, atlanta-based regional sports and entertainment network, turner south, for approximately $375 million from time warner inc. in the transaction, the company also acquired treni rights to televise certain games of mlb atlanta braves, the nba atlanta hawks and the nhl atlanta thrashers. in june 2006, the company partnered with the big ten conference, inc. to create the big ten channel, a 24-hour national programming service devoted to the big ten conference and big ten athletics, academics and related programming, which is expected to be launched in august 2007. fx . currently reaching approximately 89 million households according to nielsen media research, fx is a general entertainment network that telecasts a growing roster of original series and films, as well as acquired television series and motion pictures. in addition, fx carries sports programming with live coverage of certain nascar events. fx lineup for the 2006-2007 season includes the following critically acclaimed and popular original programming: the emmy &reg; and golden globe &reg; award-winning drama series, the shield ; the morgan spurlock documentary series thirty days ; and the highly rated and critically acclaimed drama series nip/tuck and rescue me . also included in the 2006-2007 season line-up is the second season of the comedy series it 10 table of contents always sunny in philadelphia . fx 2006-2007 season also showcases the following syndicated series: king of the hill , fear factor , buffy the vampire slayer , the practice , married with children , that 70 show , spin city and dharma and greg . speed . currently reaching approximately 67 million households in the united states according to nielsen media research, speed brings viewers into the world of auto and motorcycle racing, showcasing nascar races, events and original programming, as well as other top racing series, such as formula one, grand american road racing, american motorcycle association and moto gp racing and events. speed popular series pinks is a reality-based racing show that pits amateur racers against each other in a unique drag racing format. speed also is distributed to subscribers in mexico, canada and latin america. fuel tv . fuel tv is the only domestic 24-hour programming service dedicated to action sports and the lifestyle surrounding it. fuel tv covers both competitive and performance action in the arenas of skateboarding, surfing, bmx, freestyle motocross, snowboarding and wakeboarding. programming includes u.s. and international action sports events and competitions, as well as original series and specials about top action sports athletes and their music, art and culture from a global perspective. fox college sports . fox college sports consists of three regionally-aligned networks, fcs pacific, fcs central and fcs atlantic. fox college sports provides live and delayed collegiate events from the nation top collegiate conferences, coaches shows and collegiate highlight and magazine-format programming from the fsn rsns and certain of the fsn affiliated rsns across the country. fox movie channel . fox movie channel ( fmc ) is hollywood first and only studio-based movie network. fmc airs twentieth century fox films, as well as documentaries and original series that explore the moviemaking process from script to screen. fox sports international . fox sports international owns fox soccer channel, a u.s. programming english-language service offering comprehensive coverage of world-class soccer, and fox sports middle east, an english-language sports network airing in the middle east, turkey and africa. fox sports international owns approximately 38% of fox pan american sports llc ( fpas ) with hicks, muse, tate &amp; furst incorporated owning the remainder. fpas owns and operates spanish-language sports businesses, including the fox sports latin america network (a spanish-language sports network distributed to subscribers in certain caribbean and central and south american nations outside of brazil) and fox sports en espa&ntilde;ol (the first spanish-language sports programming service to be distributed in the united states). fox reality . fox reality is a 24-hour national programming service, which airs syndicated unscripted programming made popular on major u.s. networks, as well as international unscripted programming. fox reality lineup for the 2006-2007 season includes the following original programming: the daily reality magazine series reality remix and reality remix weekend ; the original reality series, solitary ; the original series my bare lady to launch in december 2006; and a second season of the fox reality original, american idol extra . fox reality is dedicated to delivering a wide variety of television popular reality programming, including going behind the scenes of favorite prime-time reality shows to give viewers never-before-seen bonus footage, compelling one-on-one interviews and exclusive insight from the cast and crew into reality television most memorable moments. fox international channels. fox international channels ( fic ) owns and operates channels in several countries in europe, latin america, the caribbean and asia, including: the fox channel, fox life, fx and speed in latin america; fox, fox crime, fox life, fx, cult and the history channel in italy; fx in the united kingdom; fox and fox life in japan and portugal; the voyage channel and fox life in france; fox in spain and korea; the history channel in india; and fox life in several countries in eastern europe. fic also manages the universal channel in latin america. 11 table of contents in fiscal 2007, fic plans to launch next in italy, fox crime in japan, spain, portugal and several countries in eastern europe and fx in japan and india. the fox, fx and fox life branded channels have first-run and library series programming and theatrical movies acquired primarily from major film studios, as well as original productions. cult is a factual entertainment channel featuring arts and cultural programming. the history channel provides factual series and specials acquired primarily from a&amp;e television networks. the voyage channel is focused on travel related programming. fox crime is focused on crime related programming and next is a high-definition documentary channel. competition. general . cable network programming is another highly competitive business. cable networks compete for distribution and, when distribution is obtained, compete for viewers and advertisers with free over-the-air broadcast television, radio, print media, motion picture theaters, dvds, internet, wireless and portable viewing devices and other sources of information and entertainment. important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. fox news . fox news primary competition comes from the cable networks cnn, msnbc, cnbc and headline news. fox news also competes for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other cable networks and free over-the-air broadcast television networks. sports programming operations. a number of basic and pay television programming services, such as espn and cstv, as well as free over-the-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that targets the fsn rsns audience. fox sports net is currently the only programming service distributing a full range of sports programming on both a national and regional level. on a national level, fox sports net primary competitor is espn and, to a lesser extent, espn2. in regional markets, the fsn rsns compete with other regional sports networks, including those operated by team owners, cable television systems, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors. in addition, the fsn rsns and fox sports net compete, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. the fsn rsns compete for local and regional rights with local broadcast television stations, other local and regional sports networks, including sports networks launched by team owners, and distribution outlets, such as cable television systems. fox sports net competes for national rights principally with the national broadcast television networks, a number of national cable services that specialize in or carry sports programming and television superstations, which distribute sports, including sports networks launched by the leagues, and other programming to cable television systems by satellite. independent syndicators also compete by acquiring and reselling such rights nationally, regionally and locally. distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, sometimes contract directly with the sports teams in their service area for the right to distribute a number of those teams games on their systems. in certain markets, the owners of distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, also own one or more of the professional teams in the region, increasing their ability to launch competing networks and also limiting the professional sports rights available for acquisition by fsn rsns. fx. fx faces competition from a number of basic cable and pay television programming services, such as the usa network, turner network television, spike tv, hbo and showtime, as well as free over-the-air broadcast networks that provide programming that targets the same viewing audience as fx. fx also faces competition from these programming services in the acquisition of distribution rights to programming. direct broadcast satellite television the company engages in the direct broadcast satellite business through its subsidiary, sky italia. the company also owns equity interests in bskyb and directv, which are engaged in the dbs business (for a description of the businesses of these equity interests, please see discussion under heading equity interests ). 12 table of contents sky italia sky italia currently distributes over 100 channels of basic and premium programming services via satellite directly to subscribers in italy. this programming includes exclusive rights to popular sporting events, newly-released movies and sky italia original programming, such as sky news , italy first 24-hour news channel. as of june 30, 2006, sky italia had approximately 3.8 million subscribers. competition . the number of pay television subscribers with services in italy other than sky italia is minimal; however, competition in the italian pay television market is growing and is expected to continue to increase. during fiscal 2006, the competitive digital terrestrial transmission ( dtt ) services in italy included pay-per-view offerings of soccer games previously available exclusively on the sky italia platform. the company is currently prohibited from providing a dtt service under regulations of the european commission. competition is encouraged through the regulatory environment which requires sky italia to wholesale its premium programming, to limit the length and exclusivity of certain of its premium programming contracts, as well as to provide third parties with access to the sky italia platform. magazines and inserts the company, through its subsidiaries, engages in marketing operations and magazine publishing. news america marketing group the company u.s. marketing operations are organized under news america marketing group ( namg ). namg consists primarily of free-standing insert publications and in-store marketing products and services. namg is one of the two largest publishers of promotional free-standing inserts in the united states. free-standing inserts are multiple-page promotional booklets containing coupons, sweepstakes, rebates and other consumer offers, which are distributed to consumers through insertion into local sunday newspapers. advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay namg to produce free-standing inserts, and namg contracts with and pays newspapers to include the free-standing inserts into the newspapers sunday editions. namg produces over 69 million free-standing inserts more than 50 times a year, which are inserted in approximately 1,400 sunday newspapers, throughout the united states. namg, through an affiliate, also produces approximately six million free-standing inserts 15 times annually in canada, which are inserted into approximately 150 canadian newspapers. namg is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged goods manufacturers, with products in more than 38,000 supermarkets, drug stores and mass merchandisers worldwide. smartsource &reg; is the brand name which is linked with namg vast assortment of promotional and marketing products, including free-standing inserts and namg instant coupon machines. the smartsource &reg; brand currently reaches approximately 150 million consumers weekly. the smartsource igroup manages namg portfolio of database marketing and on-line marketing products and services. the database marketing business, branded smartsource direct, provides database marketing and technology solutions for both retailers and manufacturers. the smartsource savings network, which includes smartsource.com, is an internet-based network of approximately 145 newspaper, retailer and lifestyle sites connected through a common platform that currently delivers printable coupons, samples and other consumer promotions to an audience of approximately 50 million consumers. competition . namg competes against other producers of promotional, advertising inserts and direct mailers of promotional and advertising materials, as well as trade and in-store advertisements and promotions. competition is based on advertising rates, availability of markets and rate of coupon redemption. 13 table of contents magazines united states . the company publishes the weekly standard , a weekly magazine offering political commentary, in the united states. australia . news magazines pty. ltd ( news magazines ) produces both direct sale magazines and inserts for the company australian newspapers. the direct sale magazines include: insideout , a home and lifestyle magazine; donna hay , a food and lifestyle magazine; and big league , a custom magazine for the national rugby league. news magazines also publishes sunday magazine , which is an insert in the company australian newspapers in sydney and melbourne. in addition, news magazines publishes alpha , which is a sport and lifestyle men magazine, which is only sold together with one of the company australian newspapers. competition . the magazines all compete for circulation and advertising revenue with other published products, in their same categories, as well as other forms of media. competition for circulation is based on the editorial and informational content of each publication and its price. competition for advertising is based on circulation levels, reader demographics, advertising rates and advertiser results. newspapers the company, through its various subsidiaries, is engaged in the newspaper and magazine publishing business in the united kingdom, ireland, australia and the united states. united kingdom and ireland . news international limited ( news international ), a subsidiary of the company, publishes the times , the sunday times , the sun and the news of the world in the united kingdom and ireland. sales of these four newspapers account for approximately one-third of all national newspapers sold in the united kingdom. both the times , a daily published monday through saturday, and the sunday times are leading quality newspapers. the sun , published each morning monday through saturday, and the news of the world , published on sunday, are both popular, mass market newspapers. the average paid circulation for each of these four national newspapers during the six months ended june 30, 2006 was approximately: the times 666,018; the sunday times 1,339,111; the sun 3,163,504; and news of the world 3,552,119. the printing of all four of news international newspapers (except saturday and sunday supplements) takes place principally in its four printing facilities, which are situated in wapping (east london), england; knowsley, england (near liverpool); glasgow, scotland; and kells, ireland. the company has begun a major project to update news international presses in the united kingdom. the company has acquired new sites in two locations broxbourne, in north london, and north lanarkshire, in scotland. over the next two to three years, new printing presses will be installed on these sites and in an extension to its existing site in knowsley. in connection with this updating, the production facility in wapping will be moved to broxbourne. news international also publishes the times literary supplement , a weekly literary review. in february 2006, news international launched love it! , a weekly real-life magazine, and in march 2006, launched the sunday times insideout, a monthly home magazine. in addition, in june 2006, news international began publishing a u.s. edition of the times . in october 2005, news international sold its tsl education division, which included the times educational supplement and other newspapers, magazines, websites and exhibitions aimed at education professionals in the united kingdom, for approximately $395 million. australia. news limited, the company australian operating subsidiary, is the largest newspaper publisher in australia, owning more than 110 daily, sunday, weekly, bi-weekly and tri-weekly newspapers, of which 92 are suburban publications. news limited publishes the only nationally distributed general interest newspaper in australia, leading metropolitan newspapers in each of the major australian cities of sydney, melbourne, 14 table of contents brisbane, adelaide, perth, hobart and darwin and leading suburban newspapers in the suburbs of sydney, melbourne, adelaide, brisbane and perth. news limited daily and sunday newspapers account for more than 65% of the total circulation of all daily and sunday newspapers (excluding suburban and regional newspapers) published in australia. news limited principal daily newspapers in australia are: the australian; the daily telegraph , published in sydney; the herald sun , published in melbourne; the courier-mail, published in brisbane; the advertiser , published in adelaide; the mercury , published in hobart; and the northern territory news , published in darwin. the australian , which is australia only general interest national daily newspaper, is printed in six cities and distributed nationwide. news limited other principal daily newspapers in australia are mass circulation, regional newspapers with broad-based readerships and are published and distributed regionally. the average monday to saturday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers during fiscal 2006 was approximately as follows: the australian 159,000; the daily telegraph 392,000; the herald sun 544,000; the courier-mail 231,000; the advertiser 208,000; the mercury 51,000; and the northern territory news 24,000. news limited principal sunday newspapers in australia are: the sunday telegraph , published in sydney; the sunday herald sun , published in melbourne; the sunday mail, published in brisbane; the sunday mail , published in adelaide; the sunday times , published in perth; the sunday tasmanian , which is published in hobart; and the sunday territorian, published in darwin. all these newspapers are mass circulation, metropolitan sunday newspapers with broad-based readerships reflecting the diversity of the populations of the cities in which they are published. the average paid circulation of each of these sunday newspapers during fiscal 2006 was approximately as follows: the sunday telegraph 702,000; the sunday herald sun 621,000; the sunday mail (brisbane ) 610,000; the sunday mail (adelaide) 326,000; the sunday times 348,000; the sunday tasmanian 61,000; and the sunday territorian 24,000. the other newspapers which news limited owns and publishes in australia are distributed to a wide range of readers in urban, suburban and rural areas and are principally weekly publications. the majority of such newspapers are free-distribution suburban publications, having average weekly circulations of between approximately 16,000 and 128,000. in the sydney suburban markets, news limited owns 18 newspapers; in melbourne, 30 newspapers; in brisbane, 17 newspapers; in adelaide, 11 newspapers and one monthly magazine; and in perth, news limited 50% owned suburban group publishes 16 weekly newspapers. the average weekly circulations of news limited suburban newspapers for the six months ended march 31, 2006 aggregated approximately 4,700,000 homes. news limited suburban newspapers are leading publications in terms of advertising and circulation in each of their respective markets. news limited other newspapers in australia are regional newspapers, circulating throughout broader, less densely populated areas. except for 26 of its suburban newspapers and one provincial newspaper, news limited australian newspapers are produced and printed in facilities owned by the company. united states. the company owns the new york post (the post ) , a mass circulation, metropolitan morning newspaper that is published seven days a week and distributed in new york city, baltimore, boston, florida and california. for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2006, the newspaper had average daily circulation of approximately 685,000. the company prints the post in a printing facility in the bronx, new york and uses third-party printers in baltimore, boston, florida and california. competition . the newspapers published by the company compete for readership and advertising with local and national newspapers and also compete with television, radio, the internet and other communications media in their respective locales. competition for newspaper circulation is based on the news and editorial content of the newspaper, cover price and, from time to time, various promotions. the success of the newspapers published by the company in competing with other newspapers and media for advertising depends upon advertisers judgments as to the most effective use of their advertising budgets. competition for advertising among 15 table of contents newspapers is based upon circulation levels, reader demographics, advertising rates and advertiser results. such judgments are based on factors, such as cost, availability of alternative media, circulation and quality of readership demographics. book publishing through harpercollins publishers ( harpercollins ), its wholly-owned subsidiary, the company is engaged in english language book publishing on a worldwide basis. harpercollins is one of the world largest english language book publishers. its most significant components are harpercollins publishers llc, headquartered in new york, harpercollins publishers limited, headquartered in london, and the zondervan corporation llc ( zondervan ), headquartered in grand rapids, michigan. harpercollins primarily publishes fiction and non-fiction, including religious books, for the general consumer. in the united kingdom, harpercollins publishes some titles for the educational market as well. during fiscal 2006, harpercollins had 109 adult and children titles on the new york times bestseller list, with 14 titles that reached the number one position, including: state of fear by michael crichton; marley &amp; me by john grogan; the purpose driven life by rick warren; you: the owner manual by michael f. roizen and mehmet c. oz m.d.; dispatches from the edge by anderson cooper; the fair tax book by neal boortz and john linder; anansi boys by neil gaiman; lilly big day by kevin henkes; fancy nancy by jane o connor; diary of a spider by doreen cronin; ready or not by meg cabot; lemony snicket a series of unfortunate events #12: the penultimate peril and c.s. lewis the chronicles of narnia and the lion, the witch and the wardrobe. zondervan, harpercollins evangelical christian publishing division, published the new york times bestseller the purpose driven life in october 2002 and it has remained on the list for more than 184 weeks. competition . the book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market and has been affected by consolidation trends. this market continues to change in response to technological innovations and other factors. recent years have brought a number of significant mergers among leading book publishers. the book superstore remains a significant fact in the industry contributing to the general trend toward consolidation in the retail channel. there have also been a number of mergers completed in the distribution channel. harpercollins must compete with other publishers, such as random house, penguin group, simon &amp; schuster and hachette livre, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities. although harpercollins currently has strong positions in each of its markets, further consolidation in the book publishing industry could place it at a competitive disadvantage with respect to scale and resources. other nds the company owns approximately 74% of the equity and approximately 97% of the voting power of american depositary shares of nds, each representing one nds series a ordinary share, $0.01 par value per share, which are quoted on both the nasdaq stock market and on euronext in brussels under the symbol nnds. nds supplies open end-to-end digital technology and services to digital pay television platform operators and content providers. nds technologies include conditional access and microprocessor security, broadcast stream management, set-top box middleware, electronic program guides, digital video recorder systems and interactive applications. nds technologies can be used over many broadcast media, including satellite, cable, digital terrestrial and internet. nds software systems, consultancy and systems integration services are focused on providing platform operators and content providers with technology to help them profit from the secure distribution of digital information and entertainment and the development and implementation of enhanced-television and interactive-television services from which broadcasters can derive additional revenues. for more information on nds, please see its reports filed with the sec. 16 table of contents competition . nds competes with a number of companies, although no single company competes with it in all of its product lines. fox interactive media in july 2005, the company formed fox interactive media, inc. ( fim ), a subsidiary that operates many of the company businesses across the internet, including myspace.com, foxsports.com, scout.com, fox.com, americanidol.com, ign.com and other of the company web properties. for the three months ended june 30, 2006, the fim network of websites averaged 77 million unique visitors a month and, as of june 30, 2006, was the sixth largest network of users on the internet in the united states according to comscore media metrix. fim also provides users of mobile and wireless devices with content and services, such as video access, from a number of its properties, including foxsports.com, myspace.com and ign.com, through carriers such as verizon, sprint and cingular. fim is focused on increasing its audience by developing and supporting user communities, as well as by creating and providing high quality entertainment, news and information content. fim supports user communities by providing tools and services that encourage user involvement and allow users to generate content and personalize and customize their internet space. in addition to internal development of new community tools and services, fim acquired community service developers newroo inc. (provider of a customizable news aggregator that allows users easily to find, select and incorporate news articles and similar content into their sites) and ksolo.com (provider of online karaoke) in may 2006. the fim properties create original entertainment, news and information content and leverage the company current and archived video assets. in august 2006, the company announced that fim entered into a multi-year search technology and services agreement with google inc. ( google ), pursuant to which google will be the exclusive search and keyword targeted advertising sales provider for a majority of fim web properties. in september 2005, fim acquired intermix media, inc. ( intermix ), an online media and e-commerce provider with more than 30 internet sites, for approximately $580 million. in a related transaction, intermix exercised its option to acquire the remaining interest in myspace, inc. ( myspace ), an internet entertainment company and parent company of myspace.com, that it did not already own for approximately $70 million. this transaction increased intermix ownership in myspace to 100%. myspace.com is the leading social networking site on the internet, with over 90 million registered users as of june 30, 2006. myspace.com allows users, such as individuals, bands, comedians and film producers, to create and customize content-rich internet profile pages, share user-generated video, participate in user groups and comment on other users pages. for the three months ended june 30, 2006, myspace.com averaged 50.6 million unique visitors and 29 billion page views a month in the united states according to comscore media metrix. myspace has also launched international versions of the site in the united kingdom, australia and france, and expects to launch in additional european union countries and elsewhere in the coming fiscal year. the international myspace sites provide unique local content to users in those countries while maintaining the myspace.com model for each site. also in september 2005, fim acquired scout media, inc., the parent company of scout.com, the country leading independent online sports network, and scout publishing, producer of widely read local sports magazines in the united states, for approximately $60 million. in addition, fim acquired ign entertainment, inc. ( ign ), a leading community-based internet media and services company for video gaming and other digital entertainment, for approximately $620 million in october 2005, and approximately an additional $30 million to be paid upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. fim derives revenue principally from the sale of internet advertising and sponsorships, as well as from subscription services and e-commerce, including the digital sale of video games, television programming and other entertainment products. 17 table of contents other operations the company owns news out of home bv ( nooh ), which operates outdoor advertising companies. in september 2005, the company acquired the remaining 25% stake in nooh that it did not already own from capital international global emerging markets private equity fund, l.p. for approximately $175 million. nooh owns approximately 68% of media support services limited ( mss ), the largest outdoor advertising company in russia. the minority stockholders of mss had the right to sell a portion of their interests in mss to nooh during the first quarter of fiscal 2007 and have exercised those rights. the minority stockholders have the right to sell the remainder of their interests after june 2010. nooh also owns outdoor advertising companies located in poland, romania, the czech republic and india, as well as a 66% interest in a company in bulgaria and a 67% interest in a company in israel. the company, through its balkan news corporation subsidiary, operates btv, the first national private free over-the-air television station in bulgaria. btv provides original and acquired general entertainment programming and news programs. the company owns an interest in nashe radio and best fm, both russian radio stations. in april 2006, the company sold sky radio limited, a commercial radio station group in the netherlands and germany for approximately $215 million. the company owns global cricket corporation, which has the exclusive rights to broadcast the cricket world cup and other related cricket events through 2007. news interactive is the company australian online division. in addition to maintaining the company australian websites, news interactive is responsible for online advertising in australia. news interactive operates careerone.com.au, carsguide.com.au, news.com.au, homesite.com.au, truelocal.com.au and foxsports.com.au. in february 2006, the company launched mobizzo, a comprehensive destination site for accessing mobile content. mobizzo aggregates diverse content, including games, music, graphics and other mobile content, from across the company divisions, as well as from other media companies, for use on mobile devices. in february 2004, the company sold the los angeles dodgers (the dodgers ) and related properties to entities owned by frank mccourt (the mccourt entities ) for $421 million in consideration. part of the consideration delivered by the mccourt entities at closing was a $125 million note secured by certain real estate in boston, massachusetts. in march 2006, the mccourt entities remitted the real estate to the company in full satisfaction of the note, including accrued interest of $20 million. this real estate consists of approximately 23 acres located in the seaport district of boston, massachusetts. in conjunction with this transfer, the company assumed $36 million in debt. equity interests bskyb the company holds an approximate 38% interest in bskyb. bskyb ordinary shares are listed on the london stock exchange and its american depositary shares, each representing four bskyb ordinary shares, are listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), in each case under the symbol bsy. bskyb is the leading pay television broadcaster in the united kingdom and ireland and is one of the leading suppliers of content, including movies, news, sports and general entertainment programming, to pay television operators in the united kingdom. for more information on bskyb, please see its reports filed with the sec. directv the company holds an approximate 38% interest in directv, a leading provider of digital television entertainment in the united states and latin america. directv common stock is listed on the nyse under 18 table of contents the symbol dtv. directv is the largest provider of dth television services and the second largest multichannel video programming distributor ( mvpd ) provider in the united states, in each case based on the number of subscribers. directv provides its customers with access to hundreds of channels of digital-quality video and audio programming that are transmitted directly to its customers homes or businesses via high-powered geosynchronous satellites. for more information regarding the company acquisition of its interest in directv, please see item 8: financial statements and supplementary data. for more information on directv, please see its reports filed with the sec. gemstar-tv guide the company owns approximately 41% of gemstar-tv guide. gemstar tv guide common stock is quoted on the nasdaq stock market under the symbol gmst. gemstar tv guide is a media, entertainment and technology company that develops, licenses, markets and distributes technologies, products and services targeted at the television guidance and home entertainment needs of television viewers worldwide. for more information on gemstar tv guide, please see its reports filed with the sec. foxtel the company, telstra corporation limited, an australian telecommunications company, and publishing and broadcasting limited, an australian media and entertainment company, own and operate foxtel, a cable and satellite television service in australia with 25%, 50% and 25% interests, respectively. at june 30, 2006, foxtel had approximately 1.27 million subscribers (including subscribers to optus, an australian telecommunications company). at june 30, 2006, approximately 90% of the foxtel managed subscriber base (excluding wholesale) was connected to foxtel digital service, which delivers over 100 channels on cable and satellite. other investments national geographic channel . the company holds an approximate 67% non-controlling interest in the national geographic channel in the united states, with national geographic television ( ngt ) holding the remaining interest. the national geographic channel currently reaches approximately 59.5 million households in the united states according to nielsen media research. the national geographic channel airs documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture. in addition, the company, nbc and ngt own interests of 50%, 25% and 25%, respectively, in ngc network international llc, which produces and distributes the national geographic channel in various international markets, including certain countries in europe and asia. the company and ngt also own interests of approximately 67% and 33%, respectively, in ngc network latin america llc, which produces and distributes the national geographic channel throughout latin america, spain and portugal. the national geographic channel is currently shown in approximately 161 countries internationally, excluding the united states. laptv . the company owns a 22.5% equity interest in laptv, a partnership which distributes three premium pay television channels (movie city east and west, cinecanal east and west and its multiplex channel cinecanal 2) and one basic television channel (the film zone east and west) in latin america (excluding brazil). such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of twentieth century fox and three other studio partners in the english language with spanish subtitles. the company has voting control over an additional 22.5% interest in the partnership and has entered into an agreement to acquire an additional interest in laptv from another partner. telecine . the company owns an approximate 13% equity interest in telecine, ltda., which distributes five premium pay television channels (telecine premium, telecine action, telecine emotion, telecine popcorn and telecine cult) in brazil. such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of twentieth century fox and three other studio partners in the english language with portuguese subtitles, except that telecine popcorn is dubbed into portuguese. 19 table of contents premium movie partnership . the company owns an approximate 20% equity interest in the premium movie partnership, which distributes three premium pay television channels (showtime and its multiplex channel, showtime 2, and showtime greats) in australia. such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of the company and three other studio partners. skynz . the company owns an approximate 44% interest in sky network television limited ( skynz ), a land-linked uhf network and digital dbs service in new zealand. china netcom . in july 2005, the company sold its entire investment in china netcom group corporation ( china netcom ). the company 1% interest in china netcom was sold for total consideration of approximately $112 million. recent developments in july 2006, the company and an independent third party agreed to purchase tgrt, a national, general interest broadcast television station in turkey from ihlas yahin holding for approximately $100 million. the closing of this transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including turkish regulatory review. on august 8, 2006, the company announced that, in accordance with the terms of the settlement of a lawsuit regarding the company stockholder rights plan, the company board of directors (the board ) approved the adoption of an amended and restated rights plan, extending the term of the company existing stockholder right plan from november 7, 2007 to october 20, 2008. the board has the right to extend the term of the amended and restated rights plan for an additional year if the situation with liberty has not, in the board judgment, has not been resolved. the terms of the amended and restated rights plan remain the same as the company existing stockholder rights plan in all other material respects. pursuant to the terms of the settlement, the amended and restated rights plan will be presented for a vote of the company class b stockholders at the company 2006 annual meeting of stockholders. for a further discussion of the lawsuit and the related settlement, see item 3. legal proceedings stockholder litigation. on august 23, 2006, the company completed the sale of its interest in sky brasil servicos limitada ( sky brasil ), a brazilian dth platform, for approximately $300 million in cash which was received in fiscal 2005. the sale of sky brasil was a part of a series of transactions announced by the company and directv in october 2004, pursuant to which the companies dth satellite television platforms in latin america were reorganized. in connection with these transactions, directv acquired the company interests in innova holdings, s. de r.l. de c.v., innova s. de r.l. de c.v., sky brasil, sky multi-country partners, dth techo partners and sky latin america partners. government regulation general various aspects of the company activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. the company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations. the introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the company products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the interests of the company. filmed entertainment united states ffe is subject to the provisions of so-called trade practice laws in effect in 25 states relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. these laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater 20 table of contents owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain instances, also prohibit payment of advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by exhibitors. further, pursuant to various consent judgments, ffe and certain other motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on their trade practices in the united states, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis and, in some cases, a prohibition against the ownership of theaters. other international regulation in countries outside of the united states, there are a variety of existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations which may affect the ability of ffe to distribute and/or license its motion picture and television products to cinema, television or in-home media, including copyright laws and regulations which may or may not be adequate to protect its interests, cinema screen quotas, television quotas, contract term limitations, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of u.s. products. the ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements, including the world trade organization general agreement on tariffs and trade and general agreement on trade and services; however, these agreements have limited application with respect to preventing the denial of market access to audio-visual products originating outside the european union. television united states in general, the television broadcast industry in the united states is highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc regulates television broadcasting, and certain aspects of the operations of cable, satellite and other electronic media that compete with broadcasting, pursuant to the communications act of 1934, as amended (the communications act ). the communications act permits the operation of television broadcast stations only in accordance with a license issued by the fcc upon a finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. the fcc grants television broadcast station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms. under the communications act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum permitted term of eight years. generally, the fcc renews broadcast licenses upon finding that (i) the television station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. after considering these factors, the fcc may grant the license renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted, or hold an evidentiary hearing. fox television stations has pending and will file renewal applications for a number of its television station licenses in calendar years 2006 and 2007. ten of the pending applications have been opposed by third parties, and other renewal applications may be opposed in the future. for information on the television stations owned and operated by the company, see fox television stations above. in february 1998, the fcc adopted a final table of digital channel allotments and rules for the implementation of digital television ( dtv ) service (including high-definition television) in the united states. the digital table of allotments provides each existing full power television station licensee or permittee, including the 35 stations operated by fox television stations, with a second broadcast channel in order to facilitate a transition from analog to digital transmission, conditioned upon the surrender of one of the channels at the end of the dtv transition period. by law, all full power television stations must cease transmission of analog signals by february 17, 2009. the law sets aside $1.5 billion in subsidies to help consumers obtain converter boxes that will allow analog television sets to receive digital broadcasts. all of the stations operated by fox 21 table of contents television stations have launched digital facilities. under fcc rules, television stations may use their second channel to broadcast either one stream of high definition digital programming or to multicast several streams of standard definition digital programming or a mixture of both. broadcasters may also deliver data over these channels, provided that the supplemental services do not derogate the mandated, free over-the-air program service. fox television stations is currently formulating plans for use of its digital channels. it is difficult to assess the impact of cessation of analog broadcasting and how the conversion to digital television will affect fox television stations business. under the communications act, a broadcast license may not be granted to or held by any corporation that has more than one-fifth of its capital stock owned or voted by non-u.s. citizens or entities or their representatives, by foreign governments or their representatives or by non-u.s. corporations. the communications act further provides that no fcc broadcast license may be granted to any corporation directly or indirectly controlled by any other corporation of which more than one-fourth of its capital stock is owned of record or voted by non-u.s. citizens if the fcc finds the public interest will be served by the refusal of the license. in 1995, the fcc acknowledged that the company, then an australian company, owned the vast preponderance of equity of the corporate parent of the fox television stations; however, the fcc also concluded that mr. k. rupert murdoch, chairman and chief executive officer of the company, a u.s. citizen, controlled the corporate licensee by virtue of his 76% voting control of fox television holdings, inc. ( fth ), the corporate parent of fox television stations, and, thus, found the level of alien equity to be consistent with the public interest. the remaining 24% voting interest in fth is held by the company. as a result of the reorganization, the company became a u.s. corporation and currently less than one-fourth of its capital stock is currently owned or voted by non-u.s. citizens or their representatives. on august 19, 2005, fox television stations filed applications with the fcc seeking authority to transfer control of its television station licenses from mr. murdoch to the company through a recapitalization of fth stock that would reduce mr. murdoch voting interest to 14.8% and raise the company voting interest to 85.2%. a grant of the applications will effect no change with respect to the equity held in fth, the officers or directors of fth or to its day-to-day operations. the proposed license transfers would reduce corporate complexity and yield financial savings to the company. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the fcc action on the applications or its effect on the company. on june 2, 2003, the fcc concluded the 2002 biennial review of its broadcast ownership regulations required by the 1996 telecom act by amending its rules governing the ownership of television and radio stations and by replacing its newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership ban and the radio/television cross-ownership restriction with a new set of cross-media ownership limits (the june 2003 order ). in the consolidated appropriations act of 2004, congress increased the national television station ownership cap to permit an entity to have an attributable ownership interest in an unlimited number of television stations nationally, so long as the audience reach of those stations does not exceed, in the aggregate and after the application of the uhf discount, 39% of u.s. television households. several parties appealed the june 2003 order and, on september 3, 2003, the united states court of appeals for the third circuit (the third circuit ) issued an order staying the effectiveness of the new rules. on june 24, 2004, the third circuit remanded the fcc june 2003 order for additional justification or modification of the revisions the fcc had made to its ownership regulations. on june 21, 2006, the fcc commenced a proceeding to again review its media ownership rules and to address the issues raised by the third circuit remand. the september 3, 2003 stay remains in effect pending the remand, and, therefore, the fcc broadcast ownership rules that were operative prior to the june 2003 order continue to govern the ownership of multiple stations and cross-ownership. those rules (i) permit the ownership of two television stations with overlapping coverage areas if the stations are in separate dmas; (ii) permit the ownership of two stations in the same dma if their grade b coverage areas do not overlap or if eight independently owned full power television stations will remain in the dma after the stations that had been independently owned become commonly owned, and one of the merged stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share; and 22 table of contents (iii) prohibit the common ownership of a broadcast station and a newspaper in the same market. fox television stations is in compliance with the rules governing ownership of multiple stations in the same market and with the national station ownership cap established by congress. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the fcc action on remand or its effect on the company. fox television stations retains an attributable interest in the post and two television stations in the new york dma pursuant to a temporary waiver by the fcc of the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule. on september 22, 2004, fox television stations petitioned the fcc to modify its existing permanent waiver of the rule, which allows the common ownership of the post and wnyw(tv), to encompass ownership of a second television station in the new york market (wwor-tv). on april 15, 2005, free press filed an opposition to the petition asking that it be dismissed or, alternatively, that the fcc seek public comment on the petition. fox television stations reiterated its request for modification of the existing permanent waiver in the august 19, 2005 applications seeking transfer of control of its station licenses to the company. the fcc has yet to act on the petition, the free press opposition or the transfer applications. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the fcc action on these requests or its effect on the company. fcc regulations implementing the cable television consumer protection and competition act of 1992 (the 1992 cable act ) require each television broadcaster to elect, at three-year intervals, either to (i) require carriage of its signal by cable systems in the station market ( must carry ) or (ii) negotiate the terms on which that broadcast station would permit transmission of its signal by the cable systems within its market ( retransmission consent ). on february 10, 2005, the fcc resolved issues relating to carriage requirements for digital broadcast television signals on cable systems by concluding that cable operators are not required by law to carry simultaneously the analog and digital signals of local television stations during the period of transition from analog to digital broadcasting. in addition, the fcc concluded that stations that multicast several streams of digital programming and that elect must carry are entitled to the carriage by cable systems of only a single primary programming stream. the satellite home viewer improvement act of 1999 required satellite carriers, as of january 1, 2002, to carry upon request all television stations located in markets in which the satellite carrier retransmits at least one local station pursuant to the copyright license provided in the statute. fcc regulations implementing this statutory provision require affected stations to either elect mandatory carriage at the same three year intervals applicable to cable must carry or to negotiate carriage terms with the satellite operators. the fcc has yet to decide what obligations satellite carriers will have with respect to carriage of digital broadcast signals. legislation enacted in 1990 limits the amount of commercial matter that may be broadcast during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. in addition, under fcc license renewal processing guidelines, television stations are generally required to broadcast a minimum of three hours per week of programming, which, among other requirements, must serve, as a significant purpose, the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and under. a television station found not to have complied with the programming requirements or commercial limitations could face sanctions, including monetary fines and the possible non-renewal of its license. fcc rules prohibit the broadcast by television and radio stations of indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. beginning in march 2004, the fcc implemented a new policy regarding this prohibition and stepped up its enforcement of indecency violations. under the new policy, the single use of certain forbidden expletives, or variations of those expletives, are deemed indecent and profane. the fcc also warned broadcasters that serious multiple violations of the indecency prohibition could lead to license revocation proceedings, and that fines could be imposed for each incident in a single broadcast. fox entertainment group and other broadcasters have asked the fcc to reconsider this new policy on first amendment grounds. under the new fcc policy, both complaints about indecency and fcc enforcement actions have increased, and several complaints alleging the broadcast of alleged indecent or profane material by fox television stations are pending at the fcc. in 2004, the fcc notified fox television stations of apparent liability for a $175,000 forfeiture relating to the broadcast of an episode of the program married by america by 23 table of contents the company fox affiliates, including its owned and operated fox stations. on march 15, 2006, the fcc notified fox television stations of apparent liability for a $27,500 forfeiture relating to the broadcast of the movie the pursuit of d.b. cooper by its owned and operated station ktvi(tv) in st. louis, missouri (the march 15 order ). fox television stations is contesting both forfeitures. in the march 15 order, the fcc also determined that the 2002 and 2003 billboard music awards programs, both live broadcasts on fox, violated the prohibitions against indecent and profane broadcasts because they contained isolated uses of the forbidden expletives. however, since these broadcasts preceded the fcc march 2004 policy, no forfeiture or other penalty was imposed. nonetheless, on april 14, 2006, fox television stations appealed the march 15 order to the second circuit court of appeals (the second circuit ) on the grounds that it is unconstitutional, contrary to law, and arbitrary and capricious. cbs, abc and hearst-argyle television, which were each subject to similar rulings relating to isolated expletives in the march 15 order, also filed appeals with the second circuit, as did the associations representing the station affiliates of fox, abc, cbs and nbc. on june 15, 2006, the broadcast decency enforcement act was signed into law. this law raises the maximum amount the fcc can impose for a violation of the prohibition against indecent and profane broadcasts from $32,500 to $325,000 per incident. some members of congress have supported extending the indecency rules applicable to free over-the-air broadcasters to cable and satellite programming, and/or requiring mvpds to provide their subscribers with the option of purchasing programming on a channel by channel (or &agrave; la carte) basis or to provide them with a family-friendly program tier without obligating the subscriber to purchase any other programming channels or tiers. modifications to the company programming to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on the competitive position of fox television stations and fox. if indecency regulation is extended to cable and satellite programming, and such extension was found to be constitutional, some of the company cable programming services could be subject to additional regulation that might affect subscription and viewership levels. regulation requiring &agrave; la carte or family-friendly program options might decrease the distribution of the company cable services and increase their marketing expenses, which could affect results of operations. the fcc continues to enforce strictly its regulations concerning political advertising, children television, environmental concerns, equal employment opportunity, technical operating matters and antenna tower maintenance. fcc rules require the closed captioning of almost all broadcast and cable programming. although not required by fcc regulation, the company has committed to provide program ratings information for its broadcast network programming for use in conjunction with v chip technology, a technology that blocks the display of television programming based on its rating. fcc regulations governing network affiliation agreements mandate that television broadcast station licensees retain the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance. violation of fcc regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, periodic reporting conditions, short-term license renewals and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of license. asia star broadcasts television programming over a footprint covering approximately 53 countries. government regulation of direct reception and redistribution via cable or other means of satellite television signals, where it is addressed at all, is treated differently throughout star footprint. at one extreme are absolute bans on private ownership of satellite receiving equipment. some countries, however, have adopted a less restrictive approach, opting to allow ownership of satellite receiving equipment by certain institutions and individuals but allowing them to receive only authorized broadcasts. at the opposite end of the spectrum are countries where private satellite dish ownership is allowed and laws and regulations have been adopted which support popular access to satellite services through local cable redistribution. 24 table of contents most television services within star footprint, whether free over-the-air or pay television, are also subject to licensing requirements, although these requirements are imposed on the local broadcast operators who collect the subscription fees rather than on program suppliers, such as star, which license local broadcast operators to receive their programming. in addition, most countries in star footprint control the content offered by local broadcast operators through censorship requirements to which program suppliers, such as star, are subject. certain countries also impose obligations to carry government-operated or terrestrial channels or require a minimum percentage of local content. other countries require local broadcast operators to obtain government approval to retransmit foreign programming. most countries within star footprint, including in star key markets (india, mainland china and taiwan), have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. india. in india, private satellite dish ownership, including dth, is allowed. there is a licensing framework in place to govern dth platform operators. presently, local cable television operators are subject only to an annual registration requirement and are not required to obtain licenses for operations. however, local cable television operators are required to carry certain government-operated and free over-the-air channels. as of january 2005, with respect to the prices payable by cable operators to broadcasters for channels existing on december 26, 2003 (which include certain star channels), the telecom regulatory authority of india imposes a price cap permitting little or no increase year on year from the prices payable by cable operators as of december 26, 2003. retransmissions of foreign satellite channels, such as star channels in india, are permitted, subject to licensing requirements (which were introduced at the end of 2005) and compliance with local applicable laws. further, broadcasters such as star are required upon request to provide signals of its television channels on non-discriminatory terms to all distributors of television channels irrespective of where the channels originate. china. in mainland china, private satellite dish ownership is prohibited except with special approval for hotels, government and foreign institutions which can receive only authorized broadcasts. local cable and free over-the-air terrestrial operators are required to broadcast a minimum percentage of local content and retransmission of foreign satellite channels by local operators is prohibited except with special approval. taiwan. in taiwan, private satellite dish ownership is allowed. the maximum subscription fee chargeable by cable television operators is set by both the national and local governments. cable television operators may offer basic channels and premium channels in packages or on an &agrave; la carte basis. all channels offered in taiwan must be licensed. retransmission of foreign satellite programming by local cable operators is permitted, but local cable operators are also required to carry terrestrial channels and broadcast a minimum percentage of local content. additional categories of regulation of actual or potential significance to star within its footprint are restrictions on foreign investment in platform or channel businesses, uplink-downlink licensing regulations, content protection under copyright or communications law, limitations on exclusive arrangements for channel distribution and non-discrimination requirements for supply or carriage of programming. cable network programming fcc regulations adopted pursuant to the 1992 cable act (the program access rules ) prevent a cable operator that has an attributable interest (including voting or non-voting stock ownership of 5% or more or limited partnership equity interests of 5% or more) in a programming vendor from exercising undue or improper influence over the vendor in its dealings with competitors to cable. the program access rules also prohibit a cable programmer in which a cable operator has an attributable interest from entering into exclusive contracts with any cable operator or from discriminating among competing mvpds in the price, terms and conditions of sale or delivery of programming. as a result of liberty ownership interest in the company and the conditions 25 table of contents imposed on the company by the fcc in connection with the company acquisition of an interest in directv, cable networks operated by the company are subject to the program access rules. these regulations therefore restrict the ability of the company cable programming services to enter into exclusive contracts. the rules also permit mvpds (such as cable operators, multi-channel multi-point distribution services, satellite master antenna television services, dbs and dth operators) to bring complaints against the company to the fcc charging they are unable to obtain the affected programming networks on nondiscriminatory terms and conditions. program access conditions in connection with its approval of the transfer of licenses controlled by directv to the company, the fcc imposed the following conditions relating to the carriage and availability of its broadcast and cable programming services: (i) extended the requirements of the program access rules to directv; (ii) extended the non-discrimination requirements of the program access rules to any television station owned and operated or represented by the company with respect to negotiations or agreements for retransmission consent and required the company to negotiate in good faith over retransmission consent rights for as long as the program access rules are in effect; (iii) required the company to enter into commercial arbitration if negotiations with an mvpd over retransmission consent for its television stations signals and/or carriage of the regional sports networks it owns, controls or manages reach an impasse; and (iv) prohibited the company from unduly or improperly influencing the decision of any affiliated program rights holder (a program rights holder that holds an attributable interest in the company or in which the company holds an attributable interest) to sell programming to an unaffiliated mvpd, or the prices, terms and conditions of such a sale. internet the children online privacy protection act of 1998 ( coppa ) prohibits web sites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. the controlling the assault of non-solicited pornography and marketing act of 2003 ( can-spam ) regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or spam. online services provided by the company may be subject to coppa and can-spam requirements. congress and individual states may also consider online privacy legislation that would apply to personal information collected from teens and adults. in addition, the federal government and some state governments have introduced or considered legislation relating to internet usage generally, including measures relating to privacy and data security, as well as specific legislation aimed at social networking sites, such as myspace.com. because most of such legislation is in its early stages, it is unclear how this would affect the company business conducted on the internet. the company monitors pending legislation to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments within the industry. raw materials as a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. in order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the company paper purchasing is done on a centralized, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. the company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate and that there are alternative sources of supply available at prices comparable to those presently being paid. intellectual property the company intellectual property assets include: copyrights in motion pictures, television programming, newspapers, books, magazines, websites and technologies; trademarks in names, logos and characters; domain names; patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products and services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds. the company derives value from these assets through the theatrical 26 table of contents release of films and the production, distribution and/or licensing of its films and television programming to domestic and international television and cable networks, pay television services, pay-per-view, video-on-demand services and direct-to-home satellite services, operation of websites, and through the sale of products, such as dvds, books, newspapers and magazines, among others. the company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property in the united states and other key foreign territories. to protect these assets, the company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent trade secret and internet/domain name statutes and laws and contract provisions. however, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the company intellectual property. the company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives, deploying digital rights management technologies, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. in addition, piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property. third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the company intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on the company operations. moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. therefore, the company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement. item 1a. risk factors prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set forth below before making an investment in the company securities. a decline in advertising expenditures could cause the company revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on its television stations, broadcast and cable networks, newspapers and inserts and dbs television services. expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. a decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. demand for the company products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. for example, ratings points for the company television stations and broadcast and cable networks and circulation levels for the company newspapers are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates, and with respect to the company television stations and broadcast and television networks, when determining the affiliate rates received by the company. in addition, newer technologies, including new video formats, streaming and downloading capabilities via the internet, video-on-demand, personal video recorders and other devices and technologies are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences. some of these devices and technologies allow users to view television or motion pictures from a remote location or on a time-delayed basis and provide users the ability for users to fast-forward, rewind, pause and skip programming. these technological developments are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences and may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the company offerings to viewers, advertisers and/or distributors. a decrease in advertising expenditures or reduced demand for the company offerings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the company businesses. 27 table of contents acceptance of the company film and television programming by the public is difficult to predict, which could lead to fluctuations in revenues. feature film and television production and distribution are speculative businesses since the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a feature film or television series depend primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. the commercial success of a feature film or television series also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing films and television series released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of a growing number of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. further, the theatrical success of a feature film and the audience ratings for a television series are generally key factors in generating revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and premium pay television, with respect to feature films, and syndication, with respect to television series. the loss of carriage agreements could cause the company revenue and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with third-party owned television stations, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to the company. the loss of a significant number of these affiliation arrangements could reduce the distribution of fox and adversely affect the company ability to sell national advertising time. similarly, the company cable networks maintain affiliation and carriage arrangements that enable them to reach a large percentage of cable and direct broadcast satellite households across the united states. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the company cable networks, which may adversely affect those networks revenues from subscriber fees and their ability to sell national and local advertising time. the inability to renew sports programming rights could cause the company advertising revenue to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the sports rights contracts between the company, on the one hand, and various professional sports leagues and teams, on the other, have varying duration and renewal terms. as these contracts expire, renewals on favorable terms may be sought; however, third parties may outbid the current rights holders for the rights contracts. in addition, professional sports leagues or teams may create their own networks or the renewal costs could substantially exceed the original contract cost. the loss of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by the company and its affiliates, as it relates to fox, and could adversely affect the company advertising and affiliate revenues. upon renewal, the company results could be adversely affected if escalations in sports programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in advertising rates and, in the case of cable networks, subscriber fees. technological developments may increase the threat of content piracy and signal theft and limit the company ability to protect its intellectual property rights. the company seeks to limit the threat of content piracy and dbs programming signal theft; however, policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken by the company may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties. developments in technology, including digital copying, file compressing and the growing penetration of high-bandwidth internet connections, increase the threat of content piracy by making it easier to duplicate and widely distribute pirated material. in addition, developments in software or devices that circumvent encryption technology increase the threat of unauthorized use and distribution of dbs programming signals. the company has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy and signal theft, both 28 table of contents individually and, in some instances, together with industry associations. there can be no assurance that the company efforts to enforce its rights and protect its products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy or signal theft. content piracy and signal theft present a threat to the company revenues from products and services, including, but not limited to, films, television shows, books and dbs programming. changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws and other regulations may have an adverse effect on the company business. in general, the television broadcasting and multichannel video programming and distributions industries in the united states are highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc generally regulates, among other things, the ownership of media (including ownership by non-u.s. citizens), broadcast and multichannel video programming and technical operations of broadcast and satellite licensees. further, the united states congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters, including technological changes, which could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of the company u.s. media properties. similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which the company, or entities in which the company has an interest, operate could adversely affect its business and results of operations. provisions in the company corporate documents, delaware law and the ownership of the company class b common stock by certain principal stockholders could delay or prevent a change of control of news corporation, even if that change would be beneficial to the company stockholders. the existence of some provisions in the company corporate documents could delay or prevent a change of control of news corporation, even if that change would be beneficial to the company stockholders. the company restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, contain provisions that may make acquiring control of news corporation difficult, including: provisions relating to the classification, nomination and removal of directors; a provision prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; provisions regulating the ability of the company stockholders to bring matters for action before annual and special meetings of the company stockholders; and the authorization given to the board to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. in addition, the company currently has in place a stockholder rights plan, which would cause extreme dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire a significant interest in the company without advance approval of the board. further, as a result of mr. k. rupert murdoch ability to appoint certain members of the board of directors of the corporate trustee of the a.e. harris trust, which beneficially owns 2.8% of the company class a common stock and 30.1% of its class b common stock, mr. k. rupert murdoch may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the shares beneficially owned by the a.e. harris trust. mr. k. rupert murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of those shares. also, mr. k. rupert murdoch beneficially owns an additional 0.7% of the company class a common stock and 1.1% of its class b common stock. thus, mr. k. rupert murdoch may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate 3.5% of the company class a common stock and 31.2% of its class b common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has exposure to several types of market risk: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and stock prices. the company neither holds nor issues financial instruments for trading purposes. the following sections provide quantitative information on the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and stock price risk. it makes use of sensitivity analyses that are inherently limited in estimating actual losses in fair value that can occur from changes in market conditions. foreign currency exchange rates the company conducts operations in four principal currencies: the u.s. dollar, the british pound sterling, the euro and the australian dollar. these currencies operate as the functional currency for the company u.s., european (including the u.k.) and australian operations, respectively. cash is managed centrally within each of the three regions with net earnings reinvested locally and working capital requirements met from existing liquid funds. to the extent such funds are not sufficient to meet working capital requirements, drawdowns in the appropriate local currency are available either under the credit agreement or from intercompany borrowings. since earnings of the company australian and european (including the u.k.) operations are expected to be reinvested in those businesses indefinitely, except for any one time repatriation in conjunction with the ajca, the company does not hedge its investment in the net assets of those foreign operations. at june 30, 2006, the company outstanding financial instruments with foreign currency exchange rate risk exposure had an aggregate fair value of $139 million (including the company non-u.s. dollar-denominated fixed rate debt). the potential increase in the fair values of these instruments resulting from a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately $12 million at june 30, 2006. interest rates the company current financing arrangements and facilities include $11 billion of outstanding debt with fixed interest and the credit agreement, which carries variable interest. fixed and variable rate debts are impacted differently by changes in interest rates. a change in the interest rate or yield of fixed rate debt will only impact the fair market value of such debt, while a change in the interest rate of variable debt will impact interest expense as well as the amount of cash required to service such debt. as of june 30, 2006, substantially all of the company financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk was denominated in u.s. dollars and had an aggregate fair market value of $12.4 billion. the potential change in fair value for these financial instruments from an adverse 10% change in quoted interest rates across all maturities, often referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve, would be approximately $646 million at june 30, 2006. stock prices the company has common stock investments in several publicly traded companies that are subject to market price volatility. these investments principally represent the company equity affiliates and have an aggregate fair value of approximately $16,622 million as of june 30, 2006. a hypothetical decrease in the market price of these investments of 10% would result in a fair value of approximately $14,960 million. such a hypothetical decrease would result in a decrease in comprehensive income of approximately $3 million, as any changes in fair value of the company equity affiliates are not recognized unless deemed other-than-temporary, as these investments are accounted for under the equity method. in accordance with sfas no. 133, the company has recorded the conversion feature embedded in its exchangeable debentures in other liabilities. at june 30, 2006, the fair value of this conversion feature is $235 million and is sensitive to movements in the share price of one of the company publicly traded equity affiliates. a significant variance in the price of the underlying stock could have a material impact on the operating results of the company. a 10% increase in the price of the underlying stock, holding other factors constant, would increase the fair value of the call option by approximately $75 million. 75 table of contentsrisk factors 29 risk factors in this annual report. the company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the 2 table of contents company with the sec. this section should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements of the company and related notes set forth elsewhere in this annual report. business overview the company is a diversified entertainment company, which manages and reports its businesses in the eight segments described below. filmed entertainment the company engages in the production and acquisition of live-action and animated motion pictures for distribution and licensing in all formats in all entertainment media worldwide, and the production and licensing of television programming worldwide. feature film production and distribution one of the world largest producers and distributors of motion pictures, fox filmed entertainment ( ffe ), produces, acquires and distributes motion pictures throughout the world under a variety of arrangements. during fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, ffe placed 34, 31 and 23 motion pictures, respectively, in general release in the united states. those motion pictures were produced and/or distributed by the following units of ffe: twentieth century fox and fox 2000, which produce and acquire motion pictures for mainstream audiences; fox searchlight pictures, which produces and acquires specialized motion pictures; fox atomic, which produces and acquires motion pictures targeting the 17-24 year old demographic audience; and twentieth century fox animation, which produces feature length animated motion pictures. motion pictures produced and/or distributed by ffe in the united states and international territories since the beginning of fiscal 2005 include sideways , i, robot , robots , kingdom of heaven , star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith (distributed for lucasfilm ltd.), mr. and mrs. smith (distributed for new regency), fantastic four, walk the line, ice age: the meltdown, x-men: the last stand, the devil wears prada, borat: cultural learnings of america for make benefit glorious nation of kazakhstan , night at the museum , fantastic four: rise of the silver surfer , live free or die hard , little miss sunshine , the last king of scotland , eragon and 28 weeks later . ffe has already released or currently plans to release approximately 30 motion pictures in the united states in fiscal 2008, including the simpsons movie , horton hears a who , jumper, avp: survival of the fittest, alvin and the chipmunks, the dark is rising, the darjeeling limited , the savages , juno , the comebacks and starship dave . pursuant to an agreement with monarchy enterprises holdings b.v. ( meh ), the parent company of new regency in which the company has a 20% interest, and certain of meh subsidiaries, ffe distributes certain new regency films and all films co-financed by ffe and new regency in all media worldwide, excluding certain international territories with respect to theatrical and home video rights and most international territories with respect to television rights. among its fiscal 2008 releases, ffe currently expects to distribute seven films either fully financed by new regency or co-financed by ffe and new regency. motion picture companies, such as ffe, typically seek to generate revenues from various distribution channels. ffe derives its worldwide motion picture revenues primarily from four basic sources (set forth in general chronology of exploitation): (i) distribution of motion pictures for theatrical exhibition in the united states and canada and markets outside of the united states and canada ( international markets); (ii) distribution of motion pictures in various home media formats; (iii) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on pay-per-view, video-on-demand and premium pay television programming services; and (iv) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on free television networks, other broadcast program services, independent television stations and basic cable programming services, including certain services which are affiliates of the company. the company does not always have rights in all media of exhibition to all motion pictures which it releases, and does not necessarily distribute a given motion picture in all of the foregoing media in all markets. 3 table of contents the company believes that the pre-release marketing of a feature film is an integral part of its motion picture distribution strategy and generally begins marketing efforts three to six months in advance of a film release date in any given territory. the company markets and distributes its films worldwide principally through its own distribution and marketing companies. through twentieth century fox home entertainment, inc., the company distributes motion pictures and other programming produced by units of ffe, its affiliates and other producers in the united states, canada and international markets in all home media formats, including the sale and rental of dvds. in fiscal 2007, the domestic home entertainment division released or re-released approximately 711 produced and acquired titles, including 31 new ffe film releases, approximately 533 catalog titles and approximately 147 television and non-theatrical titles. in international markets, the company distributed, produced and acquired titles both directly and through foreign distribution channels, with over 720 releases in fiscal 2007, including approximately 33 new ffe film releases, over 525 catalog titles and approximately 161 television and non-theatrical releases. in fiscal 2007, the company continued its worldwide home video distribution arrangement with metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ), releasing approximately 790 and 510 mgm home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs domestically and internationally, respectively. during fiscal 2007, the company expanded its product portfolio to include the high-definition blu-ray disc ( blu-ray ) format. during fiscal 2007, the domestic home entertainment division released 26 blu-ray titles, including nine new ffe film releases and 17 catalog titles. in international markets, the company released 25 blu-ray titles, including eight new ffe film releases and 17 catalog titles. the company also distributed ten blu-ray titles (one new release and nine catalog titles) from mgm domestically and five titles (one new release and four catalog titles) internationally. units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs in the united states, canada and international markets to various third party and certain affiliated subscription pay television, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services. the license agreements reflecting the subscription pay television arrangements generally provide for a specified number of exhibitions of the program during a fixed term in exchange for a license fee which is based on a variety of factors, including the box office performance of each program and the number of subscribers to the service or system. among third-party license agreements that units of ffe have in place in the united states for television exhibition of their motion pictures are exclusive subscription pay television license agreements with home box office ( hbo ), providing for the licensing of films initially released for theatrical exhibition through 2015, as well as arrangements with starz encore group. the license agreements reflecting the pay-per-view and video-on-demand services arrangements generally provide for a license fee based on a percentage of the licensee gross receipts from the exhibition of the program, and in some cases, a guaranteed minimum fee. in addition, these agreements generally provide for a minimum number of scheduled pay-per-view exhibitions and a minimum video-on-demand exhibition period during a fixed term. units of ffe license motion pictures in the united states to direct broadcast satellite ( dbs ) pay-per-view services operated by directv and echostar communications corporation, as well as to pay-per-view and video-on-demand services operated by in demand l.l.c. in addition, units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs to third parties, including wal-mart, apple and amazon, for electronic sell-through over the internet, enabling consumers in the united states to acquire the right to permanently retain such programs. in international markets, units of ffe license motion pictures and other programming to leading third-party pay television, pay-per-view and video-on-demand services, as well as to pay television and video-on-demand services operated by various affiliated entities. competition . motion picture production and distribution are highly competitive businesses. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. the number of motion pictures released by the company competitors, particularly the other major film studios, in any given period may create an oversupply of product in the market, which may reduce the company shares of gross box office admissions and may make it more difficult for the company motion pictures to succeed. the commercial success of the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by the company is substantially affected by the public unpredictable response to them. the competitive risks affecting the 4 table of contents company home entertainment business include the number of home entertainment titles released by the company competitors that may create an oversupply of product in the market, competition among home media formats, such as dvds, and other methods of distribution, such as video-on-demand services. the company faces ongoing risks associated with controlling unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs. for a further discussion of issues relating to unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs, see intellectual property. television programming, production and distribution twentieth century fox television ( tcftv ). during fiscal 2007, tcftv produced television programs for the fox broadcasting company ( fox ), abc television network ( abc ), cbs broadcasting, inc. ( cbs ), nbc television network ( nbc ), the cw television network ( the cw ), e! entertainment television, inc. ( e! ), fox news channel ( fox news ) and turner network television ( tnt ). tcftv currently produces, or has orders to produce, episodes of the following television series: 24 , american dad, anchorwoman , back to you, bones , family guy , k-ville, king of the hill , prison break, the simpsons and unhitched for fox; boston legal, miss/guided and women murder club for abc; how i met your mother, shark and the unit for cbs; journeyman and my name is earl for nbc; beauty and the geek for the cw; the simple life for e!; and half hour news hour for fox news. generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes for exhibition on the network during the license period. all other distribution rights, including international and off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by tcftv, utilized by other units of the company or sold to third parties. generally, television programs are produced under contracts that provide for license fees which may cover only a portion of the anticipated production costs. as these costs have increased in recent years, the resulting deficit between production costs and license fees for domestic first-run programming has also increased. therefore, additional licensing is often critical to the financial success of a series. successful u.s. network television series are, for example, (i) licensed for first-run exhibition in canadian and international markets, (ii) released in dvd box sets, (iii) licensed for off-network exhibition in the united states (including in syndication or to cable programmers), (iv) licensed for further television exhibition in international markets and (v) made available for electronic sell-through, including individual episodes and full series. generally, a series must be broadcast for at least three to four television seasons for there to be a sufficient number of episodes to offer the series in syndication in the united states or to cable and dbs programmers in the united states. the decision of a television network to continue a series through an entire television season or to renew a series for another television season depends largely on the series audience ratings. twentieth television. twentieth television licenses both television programming and feature films for domestic syndication to television stations and basic cable services in the united states. twentieth television distributes a program portfolio that includes the company library of television and film assets, and first-run programming produced by its production companies for sales to the local stations, including the stations owned and operated by the company, as well as to basic cable networks. first-run programs distributed by twentieth television include the court shows divorce court , judge alex and cristina court , the daytime talk show, the morning show with mike and juliet, and a new game show produced in concert with fremantlemedia called temptation . twentieth television derives revenue from off-network, theatrical and first-run program sales in the form of cash license fees paid by both broadcast and cable licensees, and from the sales of national advertising units retained by twentieth television in its programs. twentieth television licenses such shows as my name is earl , family guy , the bernie mac show, malcolm in the middle, 24 and the simpsons to cable and broadcast networks. 5 table of contents fox television studios ( ftvs ) . ftvs is a program supplier to the major u.s. and international broadcast and cable networks. the studio is currently producing burn notice for the usa network ( usa ); saving grace for turner network television ( tnt ); the shield and the riches for fx; the late-night talkshow with spike feresten for fox; crowned: the mother of all pageants , premiering in 2008 on the cw; and the girls next door for e!. through regency television (a partnership with new regency), productions include new amsterdam , premiering fall 2007, and the return of jezebel james , premiering in 2008, both for fox. in fiscal 2007, ftvs made-for-tv movies included the mermaid chair and what if god were the sun for lifetime. in fiscal 2007, ftvs international format production arm, fox world, consulted on more than 25 series and specials in production around the world, including the hit shows beauty and the geek and the simple life . competition . similar to motion picture production and distribution, production and distribution of television programming is extremely competitive. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. in addition, television networks have affiliated production companies from which they are increasingly obtaining their programming, which has reduced the demand for programming from other non-affiliated parties. motion picture and television libraries the company motion picture and television library (the fox library ) consists of varying rights to several thousand previously released motion pictures and many well-known television programs. the motion pictures in the fox library include many successful and well-known titles, such as the sound of music , mrs. doubtfire , planet of the apes , dr. dolittle , the x-men trilogy, the day after tomorrow , the ice age series, sideways , walk the line , fantastic four , the devil wears prada , little miss sunshine , borat: cultural learnings of america for make benefit glorious nation of kazakhstan , night at the museum and seven of the top 25 domestic box office grossing films of all time, which are titanic (together with paramount pictures corporation), star wars , star wars episode i: the phantom menace , star wars episode ii: attack of the clones , star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith , return of the jedi and independence day . the fox library contains varying rights to many television series and made-for-television motion pictures. the television programming in the fox library consists of such classic series as the mary tyler moore show , m*a*s*h , hill street blues , doogie howser, m.d. , l.a. law , the wonder years , futurama , the practice , ally mcbeal , angel , dharma &amp; greg , in living color , the x-files , buffy the vampire slayer and nypd blue , as well as such current hits as the simpsons , king of the hill , 24 , family guy , my name is earl, how i met your mother, boston legal , prison break , bones , american dad and shark . television the company is engaged in the operation of broadcast television stations, the broadcasting of network programming in the united states and the development, production and broadcasting of television programming in asia. fox television stations fox television stations currently operates 35 full power stations, including stations located in nine of the top ten largest designated market areas ( dmas ). fox television stations operates two stations in nine dmas, including new york, los angeles and chicago, the first, second and third largest dmas, respectively. of the 35 full power stations, 25 stations are affiliates of fox ( fox affiliates ). for a description of the programming offered to fox affiliates, see fox broadcasting company. in addition, fox television stations operates ten stations affiliated with mynetworktv, inc. ( mynetworktv ). 6 table of contents the following table lists certain information about each fox television station. unless otherwise noted, all stations are fox affiliates. dma/rank station channel type percentage of u.s. television households reached (1) new york, ny 1 wnyw 5 vhf 6.6 % wwor (2) 9 vhf los angeles, ca 2 kttv 11 vhf 5.0 % kcop (2) 13 vhf chicago, il 3 wfld 32 uhf 3.1 % wpwr (2) 50 uhf philadelphia, pa 4 wtxf 29 uhf 2.6 % dallas, tx 6 kdfw 4 vhf 2.1 % kdfi (2) 27 uhf boston, ma 7 wfxt 25 uhf 2.1 % washington, dc 8 wttg 5 vhf 2.0 % wdca (2) 20 uhf atlanta, ga 9 waga 5 vhf 2.0 % houston, tx 10 kriv 26 uhf 1.8 % ktxh (2) 20 uhf detroit, mi 11 wjbk 2 vhf 1.7 % tampa, fl 12 wtvt 13 vhf 1.6 % phoenix, az 13 ksaz 10 vhf 1.5 % kutp (2) 45 uhf minneapolis, mn (3) 15 kmsp 9 vhf 1.5 % wftc (2) 29 uhf cleveland, oh 17 wjw 8 vhf 1.4 % denver, co (4) 18 kdvr 31 uhf 1.3 % orlando, fl 19 wofl 35 uhf 1.3 % wrbw (2) 65 uhf st. louis, mo 21 ktvi 2 vhf 1.1 % baltimore, md 24 wutb (2) 24 uhf 1.0 % kansas city, mo 31 wdaf 4 vhf 0.8 % milwaukee, wi 34 witi 6 vhf 0.8 % salt lake city, ut 35 kstu 13 vhf 0.8 % birmingham, al 40 wbrc 6 vhf 0.7 % memphis, tn 44 whbq 13 vhf 0.6 % greensboro, nc 47 wghp 8 vhf 0.6 % austin, tx 52 ktbc 7 vhf 0.5 % gainesville, fl 162 wogx 51 uhf 0.1 % total 44.6 % source: nielsen media research, january 2007 (1) vhf television stations transmit on channels 2 through 13 and uhf television stations on channels 14 through 69. uhf television stations in many cases have a weaker signal and therefore do not achieve the same coverage as vhf television stations. to address this disparity, the federal communications commission (the fcc ) applies a discount (the uhf discount ) which attributes only 50% of the television households in a local television market to the audience reach of a uhf television station for purposes of calculating whether that station owner complies with the national station ownership cap imposed by fcc regulations and by statute. in addition, the coverage of two commonly owned stations in the same market is only counted once. the percentages listed are rounded and do not take into account the 7 table of contents uhf discount. for more information regarding the fcc national station ownership cap, see regulation television. (2) mynetworktv affiliate. (3) the company also owns and operates kftc, channel 26, bemidji, mn as a satellite station of wftc, channel 29, minneapolis, mn. (4) the company also owns and operates kfct, channel 22, fort collins, co, as a satellite station of kdvr, channel 31, denver, co. in june 2007, the company announced its plan to sell nine of the fox affiliates. the nine fox affiliates subject to potential sale are: wjw in cleveland, ohio; kdvr in denver, colorado; ktvi in st. louis, missouri; wdaf in kansas city, kansas; witi in milwaukee, wisconsin; kstu in salt lake city, utah; wbrc in birmingham, alabama; whbq in memphis, tennessee; and wghp in greensboro, north carolina. no agreement has yet been entered into with respect to the sale of any of these stations. fox broadcasting company ( fox ) fox has 213 fox affiliates, including 25 stations owned by the company, which reach approximately 99% of all u.s. television households. in general, each week fox regularly delivers to its affiliates 15 hours of prime-time programming and 90 minutes of late-night programming on saturday. fox prime-time programming features such series as the simpsons , prison break, bones , 24 and house ; unscripted series such as american idol ; and various movies and specials. in addition, a significant component of fox programming consists of sports programming, with fox providing to its affiliates live coverage (including post-season) of the national football conference of the national football league (the nfl ) and major league baseball ( mlb ), as well as live coverage of the premier racing series (the nextel cup series) of the national association of stock car auto racing ( nascar ) and the bowl championship series ( bcs ). fox also provides a four-hour block of children programming on saturday morning, programmed by 4kids entertainment ( 4kids ), a children entertainment company. fox agreement with 4kids extends through the 2007-2008 broadcast season with an option to extend through the 2008-2009 season. fox prime-time line-up is intended to appeal primarily to target audiences of 18 to 49-year old adults, the demographic group that advertisers seek to reach most often. during the 2006-2007 traditional september to may broadcast season, fox ranked first in prime-time programming based on viewership of adults aged 18 to 49 (fox had a 4.1 rating and an 11 share, cbs had a 3.7 rating and a 10 share, abc had a 3.5 rating and a 10 share and nbc had a 3.1 rating and an 8 share). the median age of the fox viewer is 41 years, as compared to 48 years for nbc, 47 years for abc and 52 years for cbs. fox obtains programming from major television studios and independent television production companies pursuant to license agreements. the terms of those agreements generally provide fox with the right to broadcast a television series for a minimum of four seasons. fox licenses its film programming from major film studios and independent film production companies. national sports programming, such as nfl, mlb and nascar programming, is obtained under license agreements with professional sports leagues or organizations. fox current licenses with the nfl, mlb, and nascar extend until the 2011 nfl season, the 2013 mlb season and the 2014 nascar season. fox also has the right to broadcast the bcs through 2010. fox provides programming to the fox affiliates in accordance with affiliation agreements of varying durations, which grant to each affiliate the right to broadcast network television programming on the affiliated station. such agreements typically run three or more years and have staggered expiration dates. these affiliation agreements generally require fox affiliates to carry fox programming in all time periods in which fox programming is offered to those affiliates, subject to certain exceptions stated in the affiliation agreements. 8 table of contents mynetworktv in september 2006, the company launched mynetworktv, a primetime general entertainment broadcast television network. mynetworktv currently has 175 affiliates, including 10 stations owned by the company, which reach approximately 97% of u.s. households. mynetworktv 2007 fall schedule includes reality programming such as the academy , jail , decision house , and meet my folks, as well as various movies and specials. in addition, mynetworktv has partnered with international fight league to broadcast mixed martial arts bouts and related content. competition . the network television broadcasting business is highly competitive. fox and mynetworktv directly compete for programming, viewers and advertising with abc, nbc, cbs and the cw. abc, nbc and cbs each broadcasts a significantly greater number of hours of programming than fox and mynetworktv and, accordingly, may be able to designate or change time periods in which programming is to be broadcast with greater flexibility than fox or mynetworktv. fox and mynetworktv also compete with other non-network sources of television service, including cable television and dbs services. other sources of competition may include home video exhibition, digital video recorders ( dvr ), the internet and home computer usage. in addition, future technological developments may affect competition within the television marketplace. each of the stations operated by fox television stations also competes for advertising revenues with other television stations and radio and cable systems in its respective market area and with other advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail and internet websites. all of the stations operated by fox television stations are located in highly competitive markets. additional elements which are material to the competitive position of each of the television stations include management experience, authorized power and assigned frequency of that station. competition for sales of broadcast advertising time is based primarily on the anticipated and actually delivered size and demographic characteristics of audiences as determined by various rating services, price, the time of day when the advertising is to be broadcast, competition from the other broadcast networks, cable television systems, dbs services and other media and general economic conditions. competition for audiences is based primarily on the selection of programming, the acceptance of which is dependent on the reaction of the viewing public which is often difficult to predict. star star group limited ( star ) engages in the development, production and broadcasting of television programming to 53 countries throughout asia. as of june 30, 2007, star was broadcast in ten languages and across 64 channels, with an additional channel launched in july 2007. star divides its markets into six regions: india; greater china; indonesia; the rest of south east asia; the middle east; and pakistan. star estimates that approximately 300 million people in 143 million households have access to star owned and affiliated channels. star owned and affiliated channels and its library content are also distributed in africa, europe, australia and north america. star programming is primarily distributed via satellite to local cable and direct-to-home ( dth ) operators for distribution to their subscribers. star is one of the leading providers of television programming in asia. of the 65 channels currently offered by star, 29 channels are wholly-owned and operated by star, including xing kong wei shi ( xing kong ) (a mainland china-oriented general entertainment channel that is broadcast in three-star or better hotels and other approved organizations and institutions throughout mainland china and in southern china where star has been granted official landing rights), star plus (a hindi language general entertainment channel and the highest rated cable channel in india) and star chinese channel (one of the leading general entertainment cable channels in taiwan). star also owns and operates channels in other genres: channel [v], star music and youth entertainment television channels, star world, an english language general entertainment channel, and star movies, star chinese movies and star gold, star english language, chinese language and hindi language movie channels, respectively. star channels are distributed both on a pay television and free basis. 9 table of contents in addition, star provides 36 channels that are either owned and operated by third parties or are joint ventures between the company and other entities, including ngc networks asia (national geographic), phoenix satellite television holdings limited ( phoenix ), espn star sports and media content &amp; communications services (india) private limited ( mccs ). star has an approximate 18% interest in phoenix, a company listed on the growth enterprise market of the stock exchange of hong kong limited. phoenix owns and operates chinese language general entertainment, movie and current affairs channels, including phoenix chinese channel, phoenix chinese news and entertainment channel, phoenix north america chinese channel, phoenix infonews channel (a 24-hour news channel) and phoenix movies channel, all of which are targeted at chinese audiences around the world and are primarily distributed on a free or an encrypted basis via pay television platforms in asia and europe and pay television platforms in the united states. espn star sports, a 50/50 joint venture between star and espn, is the leading sports broadcaster in asia and operates 15 channels in different languages. mccs, an approximate 26% star owned joint venture with the anand bazaar patrika group, owns and operates three 24-hour news and current affairs channels, namely, star news in hindi, star ananda in bengali and star majha in marathi. star owns an approximate 26% stake in balaji telefilms limited ( balaji ), which is one of the largest television content production companies in india, the shares of which are listed on the stock exchange, mumbai and the national stock exchange of india. balaji currently produces many hindi-language serials broadcast on star plus. in india, star has expanded into regional language programming with vijay, a tamil general entertainment channel, the bengali star ananda, and the marathi star majha. in april 2007, star entered into an agreement to form a joint venture with balaji, in which star will hold a 51% interest, to own and operate vijay and to create a network of other regional language general entertainment channels in india. star also holds a 20% stake in tata sky limited ( tata sky ), which owns and operates a dth platform in india. tata sky commercially launched its dth service in india in august 2006. star also has an approximate 22% stake in hathway cable &amp; datacom private limited, a multi-system cable operator in india which also provides broadband internet services. star has minority interests in various cable systems throughout taiwan, in which the koos group, a leading taiwan business conglomerate, also has an interest. in july 2007, the koos group and star sold a majority of those taiwan cable systems. star and koos intend to sell the remaining cable systems in fiscal 2008. star holds a 20% interest in pt cakrawala andalas televisi ( antv ), an indonesian free over-the-air terrestrial television broadcaster. star also holds an almost 50% interest in channel [v] thailand, a 24-hour music and youth-oriented channel that is mostly in the thai language, and has licensed the channel [v] brand in australia and korea. the primary sources of programming on star owned and affiliated channels include rights to broadcast over many territories in asia and other parts of the world: (i) original indian and chinese television programming produced, commissioned or acquired by star; (ii) many of asia most popular sporting events, such as english premier league soccer; (iii) chinese feature films distributed by emperor motion picture, filmko, media asia, china star, universe films and mandarin films; (iv) other feature films distributed by twentieth century fox, buena vista international, dreamworks skg, mgm/united artists, universal studios, sony pictures, warner bros. studios and paramount pictures; (v) an extensive contemporary chinese film library comprising over 600 titles; (vi) an extensive hindi film library comprising over 400 titles; and (vii) high-definition chinese telefeature films or programs produced by star. star other sources of programming include rights to broadcast music videos, as well as music and youth-oriented programming, produced and carried on channel [v]. competition . generally, star competes against various channels for a share of subscription, distribution, channel position, ratings and programming. 10 table of contents india. in india, the pay television broadcasting industry has several participants. competition for star indian entertainment channels in the pay television sector is provided by both pay and free over-the-air channels since they are delivered by common cable. the competition in the general entertainment television sector is mainly from zee telefilms, sony entertainment television, sahara tv, sun network and doordarshan (the government-owned broadcasting company which currently has a monopoly on terrestrial broadcasting). in addition, star, through mccs, competes against aaj tak, ndtv, ibn7 and the news channels operated by zee telefilms in the hindi, bengali and marathi language news television sector. star competes against primarily zee telefilms, sony entertainment television and sahara tv in acquiring both hindi film and programming rights and, through its 50% owned sports joint venture, espn star sports, for sports broadcast rights, such as cricket rights. china. in mainland china, star competes primarily in two distinct markets for which it has received government approvals to distribute its services. one is among three-star and above hotels and other approved organizations and institutions that are allowed to receive overseas satellite television channels throughout mainland china. the second is among general households in guangdong that can view local chinese channels, as well as the xing kong channel via cable networks. in the hotel and other institutional market, star competes mainly with foreign satellite television providers, such as discovery, hbo, axn, mtv and cetv. in the guangdong cable market, star competes with cetv and other chinese and hong-kong based satellite television channels. taiwan. in taiwan, star competes against various local and foreign satellite channels, depending on programming genre. in the mandarin chinese language general entertainment genre, star chinese channel competes against local taiwan channels, including tvbs and ettv. cable network programming the company produces and licenses news, sports, general entertainment and movie programming for distribution to distributors in the united states and internationally. fox news . fox news owns and operates the fox news channel, a 24-hour all news national cable channel, which is currently available to approximately 92 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research. fox news also produces a weekend political commentary show, fox news sunday , for broadcast on local fox television stations throughout the united states, and the nationally syndicated morning television program, the morning show with mike and juliet . fox news, through its fox news edge service, licenses news feeds to fox affiliates and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts throughout the united states and abroad. fox news also produces and runs the website, foxnews.com, and the national fox news radio network which licenses news updates and long form programs to local radio stations and satellite radio providers. fsn . fox sports net, inc. ( fsn, inc. ) is the largest regional sports network ( rsn ) programmer in the united states, focusing on live professional and major collegiate home team sports events. fsn, inc. sports programming business currently consists primarily of ownership interests in 16 rsns (the fsn rsns ) and national sports programming, which operates fsn ( fsn ), a national sports programming service. fsn, inc. is also affiliated with, through fsn, an additional five rsns that are not owned by fsn, inc. (the fsn affiliated rsns ). fsn provides the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns with 24-hour national sports programming, featuring original and licensed sports-related programming and live and replay sporting events. the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns reach approximately 81 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research and have rights to telecast live games of 67 of 82 u.s. professional sports teams in mlb, the national basketball association ( nba ) and the national hockey league ( nhl ); numerous collegiate conferences; and college and high school sports teams. 11 table of contents as discussed above, fsn northwest, fsn pittsburgh and fsn rocky mountain are part of the transactions contemplated by the share exchange agreement. if consummated, the company will not have any interest in these rsns following the closing of the share exchange agreement and these rsns will become fsn affiliated rsns. for more information on the share exchange agreement, please see discussion under the heading background. fx . currently reaching approximately 92 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research, fx is a general entertainment network that telecasts a growing roster of original series and films, as well as acquired television series and motion pictures. fx lineup for the 2007-2008 season includes the following critically acclaimed and popular original programming: the emmy &reg; and golden globe &reg; award-winning drama series, the shield and nip/tuck ; the morgan spurlock documentary series thirty days ; and the critically acclaimed rescue me . also included in the 2007-2008 season line-up is the third season of the comedy series it always sunny in philadelphia , the second season of the riches , the second season of dirt and the freshman series, damages , as well as the syndicated series king of the hill , fear factor , cops , the practice , married with children , that 70 show , spin city and dharma and greg. during the 2007-2008 season, fx will also showcase the television premieres of theatrical motion pictures, including batman begins, mr. &amp; mrs. smith , fantastic four and robots . speed . currently reaching approximately 71 million households in the united states according to nielsen media research, speed brings viewers into the world of auto and motorcycle racing, showcasing nascar races, events and original programming, as well as other top racing series, such as formula one, grand american road racing, american motorcycle association and moto gp racing and events. speed popular series pinks is a reality-based racing show that pits amateur racers against each other in a unique drag racing format. speed also is distributed to subscribers in mexico, canada and latin america. fuel tv . fuel tv is the only domestic 24-hour programming service dedicated to action sports and the lifestyle surrounding it. fuel tv covers both competitive and performance action in the arenas of skateboarding, surfing, bmx, freestyle motocross, snowboarding and wakeboarding. programming includes u.s. and international action sports events and competitions, as well as original series and specials about top action sports athletes and their music, art and culture from a global perspective. fox college sports . fox college sports consists of three regionally-aligned networks, fcs pacific, fcs central and fcs atlantic. fox college sports provides live and delayed collegiate events from the nation top collegiate conferences, coaches shows and collegiate highlight and magazine-format programming from the fsn rsns and certain of the fsn affiliated rsns across the country. fox movie channel . fox movie channel ( fmc ) is hollywood first and only studio-based movie network. fmc airs twentieth century fox films, as well as documentaries and original series that explore the moviemaking process from script to screen. fox sports international . fox sports international owns fox soccer channel, a u.s. programming english-language service offering comprehensive coverage of world-class soccer, and fox sports middle east, an english-language sports network airing in the middle east, turkey and africa. fox sports international owns approximately 38% of fox pan american sports llc ( fpas ) with hicks, muse, tate &amp; furst incorporated owning the remainder. fpas owns and operates spanish-language sports businesses, including the fox sports latin america network (a spanish-language sports network distributed to subscribers in certain caribbean and central and south american nations outside of brazil) and fox sports en espa&ntilde;ol (the first spanish-language sports programming service to be distributed in the united states). fox reality channel . fox reality channel is a 24-hour national programming service, which airs off-network and syndicated unscripted programming made popular on major u.s. networks, as well as international unscripted programming. fox reality channel lineup for the 2007-2008 season includes the 12 table of contents following original programming: the daily reality magazine series reality remix and reality remix weekend ; reality revealed ; the academy ; a second season of solitary v.2.0 ; the search for the next elvira to launch in october 2007; long way down to launch in january 2008; paradise hotel expected to launch in march 2008; and a third season of american idol extra . fox reality channel 2007-2008 lineup also includes original programming for its website, including nightclub confessions . fox international channels. fox international channels ( fic ) owns and operates channels in various countries in europe, latin america, the caribbean and asia, including: the fox channel, fox life, fx, speed and utilisma in latin america; fox, fox crime, fox life, fx, cult, next and the history channel in italy; fx in the united kingdom; fox and fox life in japan and portugal; the voyage channel and fox life in france; fox in spain and korea; the history channel in india; and fox life and fox crime in several countries in eastern europe. fic also manages the universal channel in latin america. the fox, fx and fox life branded channels have first-run and library series programming and theatrical movies acquired primarily from major film studios, as well as original productions. cult is a factual entertainment channel featuring arts and cultural programming. the history channel provides factual series and specials acquired primarily from a&amp;e television networks. the voyage channel is focused on travel related programming. fox crime is focused on crime related programming and next is a high-definition documentary channel. fic also owns a 32.5% equity interest in laptv, a partnership which distributes three premium pay television channels (movie city east and west, cinecanal east and west and its multiplex channel cinecanal 2) and one basic television channel (the film zone east and west) in latin america (excluding brazil). such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of twentieth century fox and three other studio partners in the english language with spanish subtitles. fic has voting control over an additional 22.5% interest in the partnership. national geographic . the company owns a 75% interest of ngc network international llc ( ngc international ), with national geographic television ( ngt ) holding the remaining 25% interest. ngc international produces and distributes the national geographic channel in various international markets, including certain countries in europe and asia. the company and ngt also own interests of approximately 67% and 33%, respectively, in ngc network latin america llc, which produces and distributes the national geographic channel throughout latin america, spain and portugal. the national geographic channel is currently shown in approximately 162 countries internationally and in 28 languages, excluding the united states. big ten network . in february 2007, the company formed a joint venture with a subsidiary of the big ten conference, inc. to create big ten network, a 24-hour national programming service devoted to the big ten conference and big ten athletics, academics and related programming. the big ten network is expected to launch at the end of august 2007. fox business channel. the company has announced that it will launch the fox business channel, a 24-hour national business news channel, in october 2007. currently, there are more than 30 million subscribers under contract to carry the channel at launch. competition . general. cable network programming is another highly competitive business. cable networks compete for distribution and, when distribution is obtained, compete for viewers and advertisers with free over-the-air broadcast television, radio, print media, motion picture theaters, dvds, internet, wireless and portable viewing devices and other sources of information and entertainment. important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. 13 table of contents fox news. fox news primary competition comes from the cable networks cnn, msnbc, cnbc and cnn headline news. fox news also competes for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks and free over-the-air broadcast television networks. sports programming operations. a number of basic and pay television programming services, such as espn and cstv, as well as free over-the-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that targets the fsn rsns audience. fsn is currently the only programming service distributing a full range of sports programming on both a national and regional level. on a national level, fsn primary competitor is espn and, to a lesser extent, espn2. in regional markets, the fsn rsns compete with other regional sports networks, including those operated by team owners, cable television systems, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors. in addition, the fsn rsns and fsn compete, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. the fsn rsns compete for local and regional rights with local broadcast television stations, other local and regional sports networks, including sports networks launched by team owners, and distribution outlets, such as cable television systems. fsn competes for national rights principally with the national broadcast television networks, a number of national cable services that specialize in or carry sports programming, including sports networks launched by the leagues, and television superstations that distribute sports. independent syndicators also compete by acquiring and reselling such rights nationally, regionally and locally. distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, sometimes contract directly with the sports teams in their service area for the right to distribute a number of those teams games on their systems. in certain markets, the owners of distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, also own one or more of the professional teams in the region, increasing their ability to launch competing networks and also limiting the professional sports rights available for acquisition by fsn rsns. fx. fx faces competition from a number of basic cable and pay television programming services, such as usa, tnt, spike tv, hbo and showtime, as well as free over-the-air broadcast networks that provide programming that targets the same viewing audience as fx. fx also faces competition from these programming services in the acquisition of distribution rights to movie and series programming. direct broadcast satellite television the company engages in the direct broadcast satellite business through its subsidiary, sky italia. the company also owns equity interests in bskyb and directv, which are engaged in the dbs business (for a description of the businesses of these equity interests, please see discussion under heading equity interests ). sky italia sky italia currently distributes over 100 channels of basic and premium programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in italy. this programming includes exclusive rights to popular sporting events, newly-released movies and sky italia original programming, such as sky news , italy first 24-hour news channel. as of june 30, 2007, sky italia had approximately 4.2 million subscribers. competition . the number of pay television subscribers with services in italy other than sky italia is minimal; however, competition in the italian pay television market is growing and is expected to continue to increase. sky italia competition includes companies that offer video, audio, interactive programming, telephony, data and other information and entertainment services, including broadband internet providers, digital terrestrial transmission ( dtt ) services, wireless companies and companies that are developing new media technologies. in fiscal 2005, the competitive dtt services in italy expanded to include pay-per-view offerings of soccer games previously available exclusively on the sky italia platform. the company is currently prohibited from providing a dtt service under regulations of the european commission. in addition, the italian government previously offered a subsidy on the purchase of dtt decoders. competition is encouraged through the regulatory environment which requires sky italia to wholesale its premium programming, to limit the length and exclusivity of certain of its premium programming contracts, as well as to provide third parties with access to the sky italia platform. 14 table of contents magazines and inserts the company engages in marketing operations, primarily the publication of free standing inserts and the provision of in-store marketing products and services, and magazine publishing. news america marketing group the company u.s. marketing operations are organized under news america marketing group ( namg ). namg consists primarily of free-standing insert publications and in-store marketing products and services. namg is one of the two largest publishers of free-standing inserts in the united states. free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, sweepstakes, rebates and other consumer offers, which are distributed to consumers through insertion into local sunday newspapers. advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay namg to produce free-standing inserts, and namg contracts with and pays newspapers to include the free-standing inserts into the newspapers sunday editions. namg produces over 69 million free-standing inserts more than 50 times a year, which are inserted in approximately 1,400 sunday newspapers throughout the united states. namg, through an affiliate, also produces over six million free-standing inserts approximately 15 times annually, which are inserted into over 150 canadian newspapers in canada. namg is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged goods manufacturers, with products in more than 36,000 supermarkets, drug stores and mass merchandisers worldwide. smartsource &reg; is the brand name that is linked with namg vast assortment of marketing products, including free-standing inserts and namg instant coupon machines. the smartsource &reg; brand currently reaches approximately 150 million consumers weekly. the smartsource igroup manages namg portfolio of database marketing and on-line marketing products and services. the database marketing business, branded smartsource direct, provides database marketing and technology solutions for both retailers and manufacturers. the smartsource savings network, which includes smartsource.com, is an internet-based network of approximately 100 newspaper, retailer and lifestyle sites connected through a common platform that currently delivers printable coupons, samples and other consumer marketing to an audience of approximately 50 million consumers. competition . namg competes against other providers of marketing products and services, including those that provide promotional or advertising inserts and direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, as well as those that provide trade and in-store advertisements and promotions. competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, and rate of coupon redemption. magazines united states . the company publishes the weekly standard , a weekly magazine offering political commentary, in the united states. australia . news magazines pty. ltd ( news magazines ) produces both direct sale magazines and inserts for the company australian newspapers. the direct sale magazines include: insideout , a home and lifestyle magazine; donna hay , a food and lifestyle magazine; and big league , a custom magazine for the national rugby league. with the april 2007 acquisition of federal publishing company ( fpc ) magazine group, news magazines now also publishes more than 20 additional magazines, including vogue australia , vogue living , gq australia , australian good taste , delicious. , notebook: and gardening australia . news magazines also publishes sunday magazine , which is an insert in the company australian newspapers in sydney and melbourne. in addition, news magazines publishes alpha , which is a sport and lifestyle men magazine, which is only sold together with one of the company australian newspapers. 15 table of contents competition . the magazines all compete for circulation and advertising revenue with other published products, in their same categories, as well as other forms of media. competition for circulation is based on the editorial and informational content of each publication and its price. competition for advertising is based on circulation levels, reader demographics, advertising rates and advertiser results. newspapers the company is engaged in the newspaper and magazine publishing business in the united kingdom, ireland, australia and the united states. united kingdom and ireland . news international limited ( news international ) publishes the times , the sunday times , the sun and the news of the world in the united kingdom and ireland. sales of these four newspapers account for approximately one-third of all national newspapers sold in the united kingdom. both the times , a daily published monday through saturday, and the sunday times are leading quality newspapers. the sun , published each morning monday through saturday, and the news of the world , published on sunday, are both popular, mass market newspapers. the average paid circulation for each of these four national newspapers during the six months ended june 30, 2007 was approximately: the times 640,893; the sunday times 1,230,790; the sun 3,073,046; and news of the world 3,315,976. in september 2006, news international launched thelondonpaper , a free newspaper distributed by hand in central london each afternoon monday through friday. the printing of all four of news international newspapers (except saturday and sunday supplements) takes place principally in its four printing facilities located in england, scotland and ireland. the company is in the process of updating the printing facilities of all news international newspapers to high speed, full color printing presses. in may 2007, the company printing facility in glasgow, scotland was moved to an updated facility in north lanarkshire, scotland. in addition, the current printing operations in wapping (east london), england are expected to be moved to a new facility in broxbourne, north london in 2008 and the company expects to complete the expansion of its printing facility in knowsley, england in late 2007. news international also publishes the times literary supplement , a weekly literary review, and love it! , a weekly real-life magazine. australia. news limited is the largest newspaper publisher in australia, owning approximately 145 daily, sunday, weekly, bi-weekly and tri-weekly newspapers, of which three are free commuter titles and 105 are suburban publications (including 17 of which news limited has a 50% interest). news limited publishes the only nationally distributed general interest newspaper in australia, the leading metropolitan newspapers in each of the major australian cities of sydney, melbourne, brisbane, adelaide, perth, hobart and darwin and the leading suburban newspapers in the suburbs of sydney, melbourne, adelaide, brisbane and perth. news limited daily and sunday newspapers account for more than 65% of the total circulation of all daily and sunday newspapers (excluding suburban and regional newspapers) published in australia. news limited principal daily newspapers in australia are: the australian; the daily telegraph , published in sydney; the herald sun , published in melbourne; the courier-mail, published in brisbane; the advertiser , published in adelaide; the mercury , published in hobart; and the northern territory news , published in darwin. the australian , which is australia only general interest national daily newspaper, is printed in six cities and distributed nationwide. news limited other principal daily newspapers in australia are mass circulation, regional newspapers with broad-based readerships and are published and distributed regionally. the average monday to saturday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers during fiscal 2007 was approximately as follows: the australian 161,000; the daily telegraph 380,000; the herald sun 530,000; the courier-mail 237,000; the advertiser 203,000; the mercury 49,000; and the northern territory news 22,000. 16 table of contents news limited principal sunday newspapers in australia are: the sunday telegraph , published in sydney; the sunday herald sun , published in melbourne; the sunday mail, published in brisbane; the sunday mail , published in adelaide; the sunday times , published in perth; the sunday tasmanian , which is published in hobart; and the sunday territorian, published in darwin. all these newspapers are mass circulation, metropolitan sunday newspapers with broad-based readerships reflecting the diversity of the populations of the cities in which they are published. the average paid circulation of each of these sunday newspapers during fiscal 2007 was approximately as follows: the sunday telegraph 684,000; the sunday herald sun 617,000; the sunday mail (brisbane ) 601,000; the sunday mail (adelaide) 321,000; the sunday times 342,000; the sunday tasmanian 60,000; and the sunday territorian 22,000. the other newspapers which news limited owns and publishes in australia are distributed to a wide range of readers in urban, suburban and rural areas and are principally weekly publications. the majority of such newspapers are free-distribution suburban publications. in the sydney suburban markets, news limited owns 24 weekly newspapers; in melbourne, 33 weekly newspapers; in brisbane, 20 weekly newspapers; in adelaide, 11 weekly newspapers; and in perth, news limited 50% owned suburban group publishes 17 weekly newspapers. the aggregate average weekly circulations of these suburban newspapers for the six months ended march 31, 2007 was approximately 5,200,000 homes (adjusted to reflect the acquisition of seven community newspapers from fpc in april 2007, which had an average weekly circulation of approximately 360,000 homes). in addition to these newspapers, news limited and its 50% owned perth suburban group also publish 18 other publications (16 monthlies and two weeklies) with an average circulation for the six months ended march 31, 2007 of approximately 560,000 homes for the monthly titles and approximately 80,000 for the two weekly titles (adjusted to reflect the acquisition of six publications from fpc in april 2007, which had an average circulation of approximately 180,000 homes for the period). news limited suburban newspapers are leading publications in terms of advertising and circulation in each of their respective markets. news limited other newspapers in australia are regional newspapers, circulating throughout broader, less densely populated areas. except for 53 of its suburban newspapers and three regional newspapers, news limited australian newspapers are produced and printed in facilities owned by the company. united states . the company owns the new york post (the post ) , a mass circulation, metropolitan morning newspaper that is published seven days a week and distributed in new york city, baltimore, boston, florida and california. for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2007, the newspaper had average daily circulation of approximately 715,000. the company prints the post in a printing facility in the bronx, new york and uses third-party printers in its other markets in the united states. in fiscal 2007, the company formed the community newspaper group and acquired several local newspapers and other publications distributed in the new york metropolitan area. competition . the newspapers published by the company compete for readership and advertising with local and national newspapers and also compete with television, radio, the internet and other communications media in their respective locales. competition for newspaper circulation is based on the news and editorial content of the newspaper, cover price and, from time to time, various promotions. the success of the newspapers published by the company in competing with other newspapers and media for advertising depends upon advertisers judgments as to the most effective use of their advertising budgets. competition for advertising among newspapers is based upon circulation levels, readership levels, reader demographics, advertising rates and advertiser results. such judgments are based on factors such as cost, availability of alternative media, circulation and quality of readership demographics. in recent years, the newspaper industry has experienced difficulty increasing circulation volume and revenues. this is due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media formats and sources, and 17 table of contents shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news from sources other than a newspaper. the company believes that competition from new media formats and sources and shifting consumer preferences will continue to pose challenges within the newspaper industry. book publishing harpercollins publishers ( harpercollins ) is engaged in english language book publishing on a worldwide basis and is one of the world largest english language book publishers. harpercollins principal businesses are harpercollins publishers llc ( harpercollins u.s. ), headquartered in new york, harpercollins publishers limited, headquartered in london, and the zondervan corporation llc ( zondervan ), headquartered in grand rapids, michigan. harpercollins primarily publishes fiction and non-fiction, including religious books, for the general consumer. in the united kingdom, harpercollins publishes some titles for the educational market as well. during fiscal 2007, harpercollins u.s. had 128 adult and children titles on the new york times bestseller list, with 16 titles hitting number one, including marley &amp; me by john grogan, the reagan diaries by ronald reagan, at the center of the storm by george tenet, the measure of a man by sidney poitier, the pursuit of happyness by chris gardner, the volumetrics eating plan by barbara rolls, a series of unfortunate events, #13: the end by lemony snicket, fancy nancy and the posh puppy by jane o connor, bridge to terabithia by katherine paterson, the night before christmas by clement moore, is there really a human race? by jamie lee curtis, bad dog, marley! by john grogan, charlotte web the movie storybook by kate egan, thanks to you by julie andrews and emma hamilton and warriors: the new prophecy and warriors: power of three both by erin hunter. competition . the book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market and has been affected by consolidation trends. this market continues to change in response to technological innovations and other factors. recent years have brought a number of significant mergers among leading book publishers. there have also been a number of mergers completed in the distribution channel. harpercollins must compete with other publishers, such as random house, penguin group, simon &amp; schuster and hachette livre, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities. although harpercollins currently has strong positions in each of its markets, further consolidation in the book publishing industry could place it at a competitive disadvantage with respect to scale and resources. other nds the company owns approximately 73% of the equity and approximately 96% of the voting power of nds american depositary shares, which each represent one nds series a ordinary share, par value $0.01 per share, and which are quoted on the nasdaq stock market under the symbol nnds. nds supplies open end-to-end digital technology and services to digital pay television platform operators and content providers. nds technologies include conditional access and microprocessor security, broadcast stream management, set-top box and residential gateway middleware, electronic program guides, dvr technologies and interactive infrastructure and applications. nds provides technologies and services supporting standard definition and high definition televisions and a variety of industry, internet and internet protocol standards. nds software systems, consultancy and systems integration services are focused on providing platform operators and content providers with technology to help them profit from the secure distribution of digital information and entertainment to consumer devices that incorporate various technologies supplied by nds. for more information on nds, please see its reports filed with the sec. competition . nds competes with a number of companies, although no single company competes with it in all of its product lines. 18 table of contents fox interactive media fox interactive media, inc. ( fim ) operates the majority of the company internet businesses, including myspace.com, foxsports.com, scout.com, americanidol.com, ign.com, rottentomatoes.com, askmen.com, photobucket.com, flektor.com and other company web properties. in june 2007, the fim network of websites (excluding photobucket.com and flektor.com, which were acquired in july 2007 and may 2007, respectively) had approximately 164 million unique visitors worldwide and approximately 84 million unique visitors in the united states and, as of june 30, 2007, was the fifth largest network of users on the internet in the united states according to comscore media metrix (based on monthly unique users). the fim properties create original entertainment, news and information content and leverage the company current and archived video assets. fim derives revenue principally from the sale of internet advertising and sponsorships, as well as from subscription services and e-commerce, including the digital sale of video games, television programming and other entertainment products. fim has a multi-year search technology and services agreement with google inc. ( google ), pursuant to which google provides search and keyword targeted advertising on an exclusive basis for a majority of fim web properties domestically and internationally. in furtherance of fim monetization strategy, it purchased an interactive advertising technology company, strategic data corporation ( sdc ) in march 2007. sdc advanced, proprietary technology is designed to optimize the delivery of fim online advertising. myspace.com is the leading social networking site on the internet, with over 188 million registered users worldwide as of june 30, 2007. myspace.com allows users, such as individuals, bands, comedians and film producers, to create and customize content-rich internet profile pages, share user-generated video, participate in user groups and communicate with each other using various technologies, including instant messaging. in june 2007, myspace.com had approximately 70 million unique visitors and 46 billion page views in the united states according to comscore media metrix. during fiscal 2007, myspace launched international sites in the united kingdom, australia, france, germany, italy, spain, canada, the netherlands, switzerland, sweden, austria and mexico and expects to launch in additional countries in the coming year. the international myspace sites provide unique local content to users in those countries while maintaining global connectivity to myspace.com. in addition, fim formed a joint venture with softbank corp. to launch myspace japan in november 2006. myspace also licenses its trademarks and technology to a local company that operates a myspace site in china, which launched in april 2007. myspace launched a number of new features and services during the past year, including the impact channel (http://impact.myspace.com), which provides a community for politicians, non-profit organizations and others to communicate with myspace users, myspace news (http://news.myspace.com), which provides users with access to news stories from over 8,000 sources across the internet, and, most recently, myspacetv, an integrated component of the company worldwide community and content platform which provides users personalized video channels, exclusive and original content, user generated and partner driven branded channels. myspace announced video-focused content deals and partnerships with a variety of content partners, including broadband emmy awards, michael eisner prom queen , mark burnett independent , the nba, the nhl and the sony minisode network. branded channel partners include national geographic, the new york times and reuters. fim ign network of video game-related internet properties (ign.com, gamespy, fileplanet, teamxbox, direct2drive and others) is the web number one video game information destination and attracts one of the largest concentrated audiences of young males on the internet. ign also owns and operates the popular movie-related website, rottentomatoes.com, and one of the leading male lifestyle websites, askmen.com. in addition, ign provides technology for online game play in video games. ign has launched international versions of ign.com in the united kingdom and australia and expects to launch in additional countries in the coming year. collectively, ign properties had approximately 36 million unique users worldwide in june 2007 according to comscore media metrix. 19 table of contents foxsports.com, part of the msn network, is the leading general interest sports destination on the internet in the united states. through its strategic relationship with msn.com, foxsports.com surpassed espn.com in unique users in fiscal 2007, and grew over 16% over the prior year. in june 2007, foxsports.com on the msn network had approximately 15 million unique visitors and 506 million page views in the united states according to comscore media metrix. fim acquired photobucket.com, inc. in july 2007 and flektor, inc. in may 2007. photobucket.com is a web-based provider of photo- and video-sharing services, and flektor.com is a next-generation website that provides users with a suite of web-based tools to transform their photos and videos into dynamic slideshows, postcards, live interactive presentations and video mash-ups. competition . fim business and the internet generally are highly competitive. fim properties compete with other internet sites for advertisers, users and traffic. fim develops new tools and features to remain competitive in the web 2.0 world. these new tools and features are key competitive factors in keeping users engaged with fim properties. news outdoor news outdoor group ( news outdoor ) operates outdoor advertising companies. news outdoor owns an approximately 73% interest in media support services limited ( mss ), the largest outdoor advertising company in russia. in certain limited circumstances, the minority stockholders of mss have the right to sell, and news outdoor has the right to purchase, the minority interests at fair market value. news outdoor also owns or has interests in outdoor advertising companies in poland, romania, the czech republic, ukraine, turkey, bulgaria, israel, india and southeast asia. in june 2007, the company announced that it intends to explore strategic options for news outdoor in connection with news outdoor continued development plans. the strategic options include, but are not limited to, exploring the opportunity to expand news outdoor existing shareholder group through new strategic and private equity partners. no agreement has yet been entered into with respect to any transaction. other operations in january 2007, the company and verisign, inc. ( verisign ) formed a joint venture to provide entertainment content for mobile devices. the company paid approximately $190 million for a controlling interest in verisign wholly-owned subsidiary, jamba, which was combined with certain of the company fox mobile entertainment assets. the company owns or has interests in the following free over-the-air, general entertainment television stations: btv in bulgaria; tv puls in poland; lnt and tv5 in latvia; fox televizija in serbia; and fox tv in turkey. the company has also entered into agreements in principle to acquire interests in television stations in israel (channel 10) and georgia (tv imedi). in addition, the company owns interests in nashe radio and best fm, both russian radio stations. news digital media is the company australian online division. in addition to maintaining the company australian websites, news digital media is responsible for online advertising in australia. news digital media operates careerone.com.au, carsguide.com.au, news.com.au, truelocal.com.au and foxsports.com.au. equity interests bskyb the company holds an approximate 39% interest in bskyb. bskyb ordinary shares are listed on the london stock exchange and its american depositary shares, each representing four bskyb ordinary shares, are 20 table of contents listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), in each case under the symbol bsy. bskyb is the leading pay television broadcast service in the united kingdom and ireland. bskyb acquires programming to broadcast on its own channels and also supplies certain of those channels to cable operators for retransmission in the united kingdom and ireland. bskyb also retails channels (both its own and those of third parties) to dth subscribers and to a limited number of dsl subscribers. for more information on bskyb, please see its reports filed with the sec. directv the company holds an approximate 39% interest in directv. directv common stock is listed on the nyse under the symbol dtv. directv is the largest provider of dth digital television services and the second largest provider in the multichannel video programming distribution ( mvpd ) industry in the united states, in each case based on the number of subscribers. directv is a leading provider of digital television entertainment in the united states and latin america. directv acquires, promotes, sell and distributes digital entertainment programming via satellite to residential and commercial customers. for more information on directv, please see its reports filed with the sec. as discussed above, the company interest in directv is part of the transactions contemplated by the share exchange agreement. if consummated, the company will not have any interest in directv following the closing of the share exchange agreement. for more information on the share exchange agreement, please see discussion under the heading background. gemstar-tv guide the company holds an approximate 41% interest in gemstar-tv guide. gemstar tv guide common stock is quoted on the nasdaq stock market under the symbol gmst. gemstar tv guide is a media, entertainment and technology company that develops, licenses, markets and distributes products and services targeted at the video guidance and home entertainment needs of consumers worldwide. in july 2007, gemstar-tv guide announced that its board of directors authorized gemstar-tv guide and its advisors to explore strategic alternatives intended to maximize stockholder value, which may include a sale of the company. for more information on gemstar tv guide, please see its reports filed with the sec. foxtel the company, telstra corporation limited, an australian telecommunications company, and publishing and broadcasting limited, an australian media and entertainment company, own and operate foxtel, a cable and satellite television service in australia with 25%, 50% and 25% interests, respectively. at june 30, 2007, foxtel had approximately 1.4 million subscribers (including subscribers to optus, an australian telecommunications company). at june 30, 2007, 100% of the foxtel managed subscriber base was connected to foxtel digital service, which delivers over 100 channels on cable and satellite. other investments national geographic channel . the company holds an approximate 67% non-controlling interest in the national geographic channel in the united states, with ngt holding the remaining interest. the national geographic channel currently reaches approximately 64.5 million households in the united states according to nielsen media research. the national geographic channel airs documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture. the company and ngt also own interests of 25% and 75%, respectively, in ngc network (uk) limited, which produces and distributes the national geographic channel throughout the united kingdom, benelux, scandinavia, eastern and central europe, russia, israel, greece, africa, australia and new zealand. 21 table of contents telecine . the company owns a 12.5% equity interest in telecine, ltda., which distributes five premium pay television channels (telecine premium, telecine action, telecine emotion, telecine popcorn and telecine cult) in brazil. such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of twentieth century fox and three other studio partners in the english language with portuguese subtitles, except that telecine popcorn is dubbed into portuguese. premium movie partnership . the company owns an approximate 20% equity interest in the premium movie partnership, which distributes three premium pay television channels (showtime and its multiplex channel, showtime 2, and showtime greats) in australia. such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of the company and three other studio partners. skynz . the company owns an approximate 44% interest in sky network television limited ( skynz ), a land-linked uhf network and digital dbs service in new zealand. news corporation/nbc universal online joint venture . in march 2007, the company and nbc universal announced the formation of a joint venture to launch a website and online video distribution network. the joint venture will be a platform for premium produced content from the company, nbc universal and a myriad of other content partners. the joint venture content library will also be distributed by partners, such as aol, msn, myspace, yahoo! and comcast. in august 2007, the company and nbc universal entered into an agreement with providence equity partners ( providence ), a media investment firm, pursuant to which providence will invest $100 million and will acquire a 10% interest in the joint venture. government regulation general various aspects of the company activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. the company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations. the introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the company products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the interests of the company. filmed entertainment united states ffe is subject to the provisions of so-called trade practice laws in effect in 25 states relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. these laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain instances, also prohibit payment of advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by exhibitors. further, pursuant to various consent judgments, ffe and certain other motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on their trade practices in the united states, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis and, in some cases, a prohibition against the ownership of theaters. other international regulation in countries outside of the united states, there are a variety of existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations which may affect the ability of ffe to distribute and/or license its motion picture and television products to cinema, television or in-home media, including copyright laws and regulations which may or may not be adequate to protect its interests, cinema screen quotas, television quotas, contract term limitations, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of u.s. products. the ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements, including the world trade organization general agreement on tariffs and trade and general agreement on trade and services; however, these agreements have limited application with respect to preventing the denial of market access to audio-visual products originating outside the european union. 22 table of contents television united states in general, the television broadcast industry in the united states is highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc regulates television broadcasting, and certain aspects of the operations of cable, satellite and other electronic media that compete with broadcasting, pursuant to the communications act of 1934, as amended (the communications act ). the communications act permits the operation of television broadcast stations only in accordance with a license issued by the fcc upon a finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. the fcc grants television broadcast station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms. under the communications act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum permitted term of eight years. generally, the fcc renews broadcast licenses upon finding that: (i) the television station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. after considering these factors, the fcc may grant the license renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted, or hold an evidentiary hearing. fox television stations has pending renewal applications for a number of its television station licenses. nine of the pending applications have been opposed by third parties. for information on the television stations owned and operated by the company, see fox television stations above. in february 1998, the fcc adopted a final table of digital channel allotments and rules for the implementation of digital television ( dtv ) service (including high-definition television) in the united states. the digital table of allotments provides each existing full power television station licensee or permittee, including the 35 stations operated by fox television stations, with a second broadcast channel in order to facilitate a transition from analog to digital transmission, conditioned upon the surrender of one of the channels at the end of the dtv transition period. by law, all full power television stations must cease transmission of analog signals by february 17, 2009. the law sets aside $1.5 billion in subsidies to help consumers obtain converter boxes that will allow analog television sets to receive digital broadcasts. all of the stations operated by fox television stations have launched digital facilities. under fcc rules, television stations may use their second channel to broadcast either one stream of high definition digital programming or to multicast several streams of standard definition digital programming or a mixture of both. broadcasters may also deliver data over these channels, provided that the supplemental services do not derogate the mandated, free over-the-air program service. fox television stations is currently formulating plans for use of its digital channels. it is difficult to assess the impact of cessation of analog broadcasting and how the conversion to digital television will affect fox television stations business. on october 6, 2006 the fcc granted fox television stations applications to transfer control of its television station licenses from mr. k rupert murdoch to the company through a recapitalization of fth stock that reduced mr. k. rupert murdoch voting interest to 14.8% and raised the company voting interest to 85.2% (the october 2006 order ). the grant of the applications effected no change with respect to the equity held in fth, the officers or directors of fth or to its day-to-day operations. on june 2, 2003, the fcc concluded the 2002 biennial review of its broadcast ownership regulations required by the 1996 telecom act by amending its rules governing the ownership of television and radio stations and by replacing its newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership ban and the radio/television cross-ownership restriction with a new set of cross-media ownership limits (the june 2003 order ). in the consolidated appropriations act of 2004, congress increased the national television station ownership cap to permit an entity to have an attributable ownership interest in an unlimited number of television stations nationally, so long as the 23 table of contents audience reach of those stations does not exceed, in the aggregate and after the application of the uhf discount, 39% of u.s. television households. several parties appealed the june 2003 order and, on september 3, 2003, the united states court of appeals for the third circuit (the third circuit ) issued an order staying the effectiveness of the new rules. on june 24, 2004, the third circuit remanded the fcc june 2003 order for additional justification or modification of the revisions the fcc had made to its ownership regulations. on june 21, 2006, the fcc commenced a proceeding to again review its media ownership rules and to address the issues raised by the third circuit remand. the september 3, 2003 stay remains in effect pending the remand, and, therefore, the fcc broadcast ownership rules that were operative prior to the june 2003 order continue to govern the ownership of multiple stations and cross-ownership. those rules (i) permit the ownership of two television stations with overlapping coverage areas if the stations are in separate dmas; (ii) permit the ownership of two stations in the same dma if their grade b coverage areas do not overlap or if eight independently owned full power television stations will remain in the dma after the stations that had been independently owned become commonly owned, and one of the merged stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share; and (iii) prohibit the common ownership of a broadcast station and a newspaper in the same market. fox television stations is in compliance with the rules governing ownership of multiple stations in the same market and with the national station ownership cap established by congress. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the fcc action on remand or its effect on the company. fox television stations retains an attributable interest in the post and two television stations in the new york dma. in the october 2006 order, the fcc reaffirmed the company permanent waiver of the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, which allows the common ownership of the post and wnyw(tv), and granted a two-year temporary waiver of the rule to continue to allow the common ownership of the post and wwor-tv. parties opposed to the fcc decision filed a petition for reconsideration with the agency and an appeal to the d.c. circuit court of appeals, both of which are pending. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the fcc or the court action on these filings or their effect on the company. fcc regulations implementing the cable television consumer protection and competition act of 1992 (the 1992 cable act ) require each television broadcaster to elect, at three-year intervals, either to (i) require carriage of its signal by cable systems in the station market ( must carry ) or (ii) negotiate the terms on which that broadcast station would permit transmission of its signal by the cable systems within its market ( retransmission consent ). on february 10, 2005, the fcc resolved issues relating to carriage requirements for digital broadcast television signals on cable systems by concluding that cable operators are not required by law to carry simultaneously the analog and digital signals of local television stations during the period of transition from analog to digital broadcasting. in addition, the fcc concluded that stations that multicast several streams of digital programming and that elect must carry are entitled to the carriage by cable systems of only a single primary programming stream. the satellite home viewer improvement act of 1999 required satellite carriers, as of january 1, 2002, to carry upon request all television stations located in markets in which the satellite carrier retransmits at least one local station pursuant to the copyright license provided in the statute. fcc regulations implementing this statutory provision require affected stations to either elect mandatory carriage at the same three year intervals applicable to cable must carry or to negotiate carriage terms with the satellite operators. the fcc has yet to decide what obligations satellite carriers will have with respect to carriage of digital broadcast signals. legislation enacted in 1990 limits the amount of commercial matter that may be broadcast during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. in addition, under fcc license renewal processing guidelines, television stations are generally required to broadcast a minimum of three hours per week of programming, which, among other requirements, must serve, as a significant purpose, the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and under. a television station found not to have complied with the programming requirements or commercial limitations could face sanctions, including monetary fines and the possible non-renewal of its license. 24 table of contents fcc rules prohibit the broadcast by television and radio stations of indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. beginning in march 2004, the fcc implemented a new policy regarding this prohibition and generally stepped up its enforcement of indecency violations. under the new policy, the single use of certain forbidden expletives, or variations of those expletives, were deemed indecent and profane. the fcc also warned broadcasters that serious multiple violations of the indecency prohibition could lead to license revocation proceedings, and that fines could be imposed for each incident in a single broadcast. under the new fcc policy, both complaints about indecency and fcc enforcement actions have increased, and several complaints alleging the broadcast of alleged indecent or profane material by fox television stations are pending at the fcc. in 2004, the fcc notified fox television stations of apparent liability for a $175,000 forfeiture relating to the broadcast of an episode of the program married by america by the company fox affiliates, including its owned and operated fox stations. on march 15, 2006, the fcc notified fox television stations of apparent liability for a $27,500 forfeiture relating to the broadcast of the movie the pursuit of d.b. cooper by its owned and operated station ktvi(tv) in st. louis, missouri (the march 15 order ). fox television stations is contesting both forfeitures. in the march 15 order, the fcc also determined that the 2002 and 2003 billboard music awards programs, both live broadcasts on fox, violated the prohibitions against indecent and profane broadcasts because they contained isolated uses of the forbidden expletives. however, since these broadcasts preceded the fcc march 2004 policy, no forfeiture or other penalty was imposed. nonetheless, in april 2006, fox television stations appealed the march 15 order to the second circuit court of appeals (the second circuit ). on june 4, 2007 the second circuit granted fox appeal, vacated the fcc decision in the billboard music awards cases as well as the fcc new policy on fleeting expletives in its entirety on the grounds that both were arbitrary and capricious. the court remanded the case to the fcc for further proceedings consistent with the court opinion. on june 15, 2006, the broadcast decency enforcement act was signed into law. this law raises the maximum amount the fcc can impose for a violation of the prohibition against indecent and profane broadcasts from $32,500 to $325,000 per incident. some members of congress have supported extending the indecency rules applicable to free over-the-air broadcasters to cable and satellite programming, and/or requiring mvpds to provide their subscribers with the option of purchasing programming on a channel by channel (or &agrave; la carte) basis or to provide them with a family - -friendly program tier without obligating the subscriber to purchase any other programming channels or tiers. modifications to the company programming to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on the competitive position of fox television stations and fox. if indecency regulation is extended to cable and satellite programming, and such extension was found to be constitutional, some of the company cable programming services could be subject to additional regulation that might affect subscription and viewership levels. regulation requiring &agrave; la carte or family-friendly program options might decrease the distribution of the company cable services and increase their marketing expenses, which could affect results of operations. the fcc continues to enforce strictly its regulations concerning political advertising, children television, environmental concerns, equal employment opportunity, technical operating matters and antenna tower maintenance. fcc rules require the closed captioning of almost all broadcast and cable programming. although not required by fcc regulation, the company has committed to provide program ratings information for its broadcast network programming for use in conjunction with v chip technology, a technology that blocks the display of television programming based on its rating. fcc regulations governing network affiliation agreements mandate that television broadcast station licensees retain the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance. violation of fcc regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, periodic reporting conditions, short-term license renewals and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of license. 25 table of contents asia star broadcasts television programming over a footprint covering approximately 53 countries. government regulation of direct reception and redistribution via cable or other means of satellite television signals, where it is addressed at all, is treated differently throughout star footprint. at one extreme are absolute bans on private ownership of satellite receiving equipment. some countries, however, have adopted a less restrictive approach, opting to allow ownership of satellite receiving equipment by certain institutions and individuals but allowing them to receive only authorized broadcasts. at the opposite end of the spectrum are countries where private satellite dish ownership is allowed and laws and regulations have been adopted which support popular access to satellite services through local cable redistribution. most television services within star footprint, whether free over-the-air or pay television, are also subject to licensing requirements, although these requirements are imposed on the local broadcast operators who collect the subscription fees rather than on program suppliers, such as star, which license local broadcast operators to receive their programming. in addition, most countries in star footprint control the content offered by local broadcast operators through censorship requirements to which program suppliers, such as star, are subject. certain countries also impose obligations to carry government-operated or terrestrial channels or require a minimum percentage of local content. other countries require local broadcast operators to obtain government approval to retransmit foreign programming. most countries within star footprint, including in star key markets (india, mainland china and taiwan), have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. india. in india, private satellite dish ownership, including dth, is allowed. television viewers receive broadcast television signals primarily through terrestrial and cable delivery and in more recent years, dth delivery. all cable television operators are required to carry certain government-operated channels. retransmissions of foreign satellite channels, such as star channels in india, are permitted, subject to licensing requirements and compliance with local applicable laws, including censorship codes. the indian government also places certain restrictions on advertising and requires that certain media, whether produced in india or abroad, must be certified by the central board of film certification prior to exhibition in india. limits are imposed on the increase in the year-on-year prices payable by cable operators to broadcasters for certain channels, including certain star channels. there is no tariff regulation for dth; however, broadcasters are required to offer their channels to dth platforms at 50% of the rates charged by analogue cable operators. broadcasters are also required to provide their channels on non-discriminatory terms to all distributors. in certain metropolitan areas, viewers are required to buy or rent a set-top-box from cable operators to access pay television channels, which allows viewers to choose the pay television channels they wish to subscribe to on an &agrave; la carte basis, rather than on a bundled basis. further cable operators are required to provide a pay television channel at a capped retail price, of which the broadcasters share is restricted to 45%. broadcasters and cable operators must execute standard format agreements regarding the provision of television signals in certain metropolitan areas. china. in mainland china, private satellite dish ownership is prohibited except with special approval for hotels, government and foreign institutions which can receive only authorized broadcasts. local cable and free over-the-air terrestrial operators are required to broadcast a minimum percentage of local content and retransmission of foreign satellite channels by local operators is prohibited except with special approval. taiwan. in taiwan, private satellite dish ownership is allowed. the maximum subscription fee chargeable by cable television operators is set by both the national and local governments. cable television operators offer analog basic channels in a single package and digital premium channels in packages or on an &agrave; la carte basis as a 26 table of contents buy through to their basic analog service. all channels offered in taiwan must be licensed. retransmission of foreign satellite programming by local cable operators is permitted, but local cable operators are also required to carry terrestrial channels and broadcast a minimum percentage of local content. additional categories of regulation of actual or potential significance to star within its footprint are restrictions on foreign investment in platform or channel businesses, uplink-downlink licensing regulations, content protection under copyright or communications law, limitations on exclusive arrangements for channel distribution and non-discrimination requirements for supply or carriage of programming. cable network programming fcc regulations adopted pursuant to the 1992 cable act (the program access rules ) prevent a cable operator that has an attributable interest (including voting or non-voting stock ownership of 5% or more or limited partnership equity interests of 5% or more) in a programming vendor from exercising undue or improper influence over the vendor in its dealings with competitors to cable. the program access rules also prohibit a cable programmer in which a cable operator has an attributable interest from entering into exclusive contracts with any cable operator or from discriminating among competing mvpds in the price, terms and conditions of sale or delivery of programming. as a result of liberty ownership interest in the company and the conditions imposed on the company by the fcc in connection with the company acquisition of an interest in directv, cable networks operated by the company are subject to the program access rules. these regulations therefore restrict the ability of the company cable programming services to enter into exclusive contracts. the rules also permit mvpds (such as cable operators, multi-channel multi-point distribution services, satellite master antenna television services, dbs and dth operators) to bring complaints against the company to the fcc charging they are unable to obtain the affected programming networks on nondiscriminatory terms and conditions. program access conditions in connection with its approval of the transfer of licenses controlled by directv to the company, the fcc imposed the following conditions relating to the carriage and availability of its broadcast and cable programming services: (i) extended the requirements of the program access rules to directv; (ii) extended the non-discrimination requirements of the program access rules to any television station owned and operated or represented by the company with respect to negotiations or agreements for retransmission consent and required the company to negotiate in good faith over retransmission consent rights for as long as the program access rules are in effect; (iii) required the company to enter into commercial arbitration if negotiations with an mvpd over retransmission consent for its television stations signals and/or carriage of the regional sports networks it owns, controls or manages reach an impasse; and (iv) prohibited the company from unduly or improperly influencing the decision of any affiliated program rights holder (a program rights holder that holds an attributable interest in the company or in which the company holds an attributable interest) to sell programming to an unaffiliated mvpd, or the prices, terms and conditions of such a sale. internet the children online privacy protection act of 1998 ( coppa ) prohibits web sites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. the controlling the assault of non-solicited pornography and marketing act of 2003 ( can-spam ) regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or spam. online services provided by the company may be subject to coppa and can-spam requirements. congress and individual states may also consider online privacy legislation that would apply to personal information collected from teens and adults. in addition, the federal government and some state governments have introduced or considered legislation relating to internet usage generally, including measures relating to privacy and data security, as well as specific legislation aimed at social networking sites, such as myspace.com. because most of such legislation is in its 27 table of contents early stages, it is unclear how this would affect the company business conducted on the internet. the company monitors pending legislation to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments within the industry. raw materials as a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. in order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the company paper purchasing is done on a centralized, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. the company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate and that there are alternative sources of supply available at prices comparable to those presently being paid. intellectual property the company intellectual property assets include: copyrights in motion pictures, television programming, newspapers, books, magazines, websites and technologies; trademarks in names, logos and characters; domain names; patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds. the company derives value from these assets through the theatrical release of films and the production, distribution and/or licensing of its films and television programming to domestic and international television and cable networks, pay television services, pay-per-view, video-on-demand services and direct-to-home satellite services, operation of websites, and through the sale of products, such as dvds, books, newspapers and magazines, among others. the company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property in the united states and other key foreign territories. to protect these assets, the company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and internet/domain name statutes and laws and contract provisions. however, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the company intellectual property. the company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives, deploying digital rights management technologies, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. in addition, piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property. third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the company intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on the company operations. moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. therefore, the company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement. 28 table of contents item 1a. risk factors prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set forth below before making an investment in the company securities. a decline in advertising expenditures could cause the company revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on or in its television stations, broadcast and cable networks, newspapers and inserts, websites and dbs services. expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. a decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. demand for the company products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. for example, ratings points for the company television stations, broadcast and cable networks and circulation levels for the company newspapers are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates, and with respect to the company television stations and broadcast and television networks, when determining the affiliate rates received by the company. in addition, newer technologies, including new video formats, streaming and downloading capabilities via the internet, video-on-demand, personal video recorders and other devices and technologies are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences. some of these devices and technologies allow users to view television or motion pictures from a remote location or on a time- delayed basis and provide users the ability for users to fast-forward, rewind, pause and skip programming. these technological developments are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences and may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the company offerings to viewers, advertisers and/or distributors. a decrease in advertising expenditures or reduced demand for the company offerings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the company businesses. acceptance of the company film and television programming by the public is difficult to predict, which could lead to fluctuations in revenues. feature film and television production and distribution are speculative businesses since the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a feature film or television series depend primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. the commercial success of a feature film or television series also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing films and television series released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of a growing number of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. further, the theatrical success of a feature film and the audience ratings for a television series are generally key factors in generating revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and premium pay television, with respect to feature films, and syndication, with respect to television series. the loss of carriage agreements could cause the company revenue and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with third-party owned television stations, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to the company. the loss of a significant number of these affiliation arrangements could reduce the distribution of fox and adversely affect the company ability to sell national advertising time. similarly, the company cable networks maintain affiliation and carriage arrangements that enable them to reach a large percentage of cable and direct broadcast satellite households across the united states. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the company cable networks, which may adversely affect those networks revenues from subscriber fees and their ability to sell national and local advertising time. 29 table of contents the inability to renew sports programming rights could cause the company advertising revenue to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the sports rights contracts between the company, on the one hand, and various professional sports leagues and teams, on the other, have varying duration and renewal terms. as these contracts expire, renewals on favorable terms may be sought; however, third parties may outbid the current rights holders for the rights contracts. in addition, professional sports leagues or teams may create their own networks or the renewal costs could substantially exceed the original contract cost. the loss of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by the company and its affiliates, as it relates to fox, and could adversely affect the company advertising and affiliate revenues. upon renewal, the company results could be adversely affected if escalations in sports programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in advertising rates and, in the case of cable networks, subscriber fees. technological developments may increase the threat of content piracy and signal theft and limit the company ability to protect its intellectual property rights. the company seeks to limit the threat of content piracy and dbs programming signal theft; however, policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken by the company may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties. developments in technology, including digital copying, file compressing and the growing penetration of high-bandwidth internet connections, increase the threat of content piracy by making it easier to duplicate and widely distribute pirated material. in addition, developments in software or devices that circumvent encryption technology increase the threat of unauthorized use and distribution of dbs programming signals. the company has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy and signal theft, both individually and, in some instances, together with industry associations. there can be no assurance that the company efforts to enforce its rights and protect its products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy or signal theft. content piracy and signal theft present a threat to the company revenues from products and services, including, but not limited to, films, television shows, books and dbs programming. labor disputes may have an adverse effect on the company business . in a variety of the company business, the company and its partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements, including employees of the company film and television studio operations and newspapers. if the company or its partners are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, certain of which are expiring within the next year or so, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute could have an adverse effect on the company business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins. changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws and other regulations may have an adverse effect on the company business. in general, the television broadcasting and multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the united states are highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc generally regulates, among other things, the ownership of media, broadcast and multichannel video programming and technical operations of broadcast and satellite licensees. further, the united states congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters, including technological changes, which could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of the company u.s. media properties. similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which the company, or entities in which the company has an interest, operate could adversely affect its business and results of operations. 30 table of contents provisions in the company corporate documents, delaware law and the ownership of the company class b common stock by certain principal stockholders could delay or prevent a change of control of news corporation, even if that change would be beneficial to the company stockholders. the existence of some provisions in the company corporate documents could delay or prevent a change of control of news corporation, even if that change would be beneficial to the company stockholders. the company restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, contain provisions that may make acquiring control of news corporation difficult, including: provisions relating to the classification, nomination and removal of directors; a provision prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; provisions regulating the ability of the company stockholders to bring matters for action before annual and special meetings of the company stockholders; and the authorization given to the company board of directors (the board ) to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. in addition, the company currently has in place a stockholder rights plan, which would cause extreme dilution to any person or group that attempts to acquire a significant interest in the company without advance approval of the board. further, as a result of mr. k. rupert murdoch ability to appoint certain members of the board of directors of the corporate trustee of the murdoch family trust, which beneficially owns 1.6% of the company class a common stock and 30.1% of the class b common stock, mr. k. rupert murdoch may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the shares beneficially owned by the murdoch family trust. mr. k. rupert murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of those shares. also, mr. k. rupert murdoch beneficially owns an additional 1.2% of the class a common stock and 1.1% of the class b common stock. thus, mr. k. rupert murdoch may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate 2.7% of the class a common stock and 31.2% of the class b common stock. if the share exchange agreement is consummated, the company intends to redeem the rights issued under the stockholder rights plan at that time and to take the necessary steps to declassify its classified board structure. further, if the share exchange agreement is consummated, the aggregate voting power represented by the shares of class b common stock held by mr. k. rupert murdoch and the murdoch family trust would increase to approximately 38.6% of the company aggregate voting power, subject to further increase to approximately 40.0% if the company completes its previously announced stock repurchase program. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 78 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has exposure to several types of market risk: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and stock prices. the company neither holds nor issues financial instruments for trading purposes. the following sections provide quantitative information on the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and stock price risk. it makes use of sensitivity analyses that are inherently limited in estimating actual losses in fair value that can occur from changes in market conditions. foreign currency exchange rates the company conducts operations in four principal currencies: the u.s. dollar, the british pound sterling, the euro and the australian dollar. these currencies operate as the functional currency for the company u.s., european (including the united kingdom) and australian operations, respectively. cash is managed centrally within each of the three regions with net earnings reinvested locally and working capital requirements met from existing liquid funds. to the extent such funds are not sufficient to meet working capital requirements, drawdowns in the appropriate local currency are available from intercompany borrowings. since earnings of the company australian and european (including the united kingdom) operations are expected to be reinvested in those businesses indefinitely, the company does not hedge its investment in the net assets of those foreign operations. at june 30, 2007, the company outstanding financial instruments with foreign currency exchange rate risk exposure had an aggregate fair value of $201 million (including the company non-u.s. dollar-denominated fixed rate debt). the potential increase in the fair values of these instruments resulting from a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately $25 million at june 30, 2007. interest rates the company current financing arrangements and facilities include $12.5 billion of outstanding debt with fixed interest and the new credit agreement, which carries variable interest. fixed and variable rate debts are impacted differently by changes in interest rates. a change in the interest rate or yield of fixed rate debt will only impact the fair market value of such debt, while a change in the interest rate of variable debt will impact interest expense as well as the amount of cash required to service such debt. as of june 30, 2007, substantially all of the company financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk was denominated in u.s. dollars and had an aggregate fair market value of $13.2 billion. the potential change in fair value for these financial instruments from an adverse 10% change in quoted interest rates across all maturities, often referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve, would be approximately $643 million at june 30, 2007. stock prices the company has common stock investments in several publicly traded companies that are subject to market price volatility. these investments principally represent the company equity affiliates and have an aggregate fair value of approximately $21,608 million as of june 30, 2007. a hypothetical decrease in the market price of these investments of 10% would result in a fair value of approximately $19,447 million. such a hypothetical decrease would result in a decrease in comprehensive income of approximately $23 million, as any changes in fair value of the company equity affiliates are not recognized unless deemed other-than-temporary, as these investments are accounted for under the equity method. in accordance with sfas no. 133, the company has recorded the conversion feature embedded in its exchangeable debentures in other liabilities. at june 30, 2007, the fair value of this conversion feature is $352 million and is sensitive to movements in the share price of one of the company publicly traded equity affiliates. a significant variance in the price of the underlying stock could have a material impact on the operating results of the company. a 10% increase in the price of the underlying shares, holding other factors constant, would increase the fair value of the call option by approximately $115 million. 78 table of contentsrisk factors 30 risk factors in this annual report. the company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the company with the sec. this section should be read together with the audited consolidated financial statements of the company and related notes set forth elsewhere in this annual report. business overview the company is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in the eight segments described below. filmed entertainment the company engages in the production and acquisition of live-action and animated motion pictures for distribution and licensing in all formats in all entertainment media worldwide, and the production and licensing of television programming worldwide. feature film production and distribution one of the world largest producers and distributors of motion pictures, fox filmed entertainment ( ffe ), produces, acquires and distributes motion pictures throughout the world under a variety of 2 table of contents arrangements. during fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, ffe placed 25, 34 and 31 motion pictures, respectively, in general release in the united states. those motion pictures were produced and/or distributed by the following units of ffe: twentieth century fox and fox 2000, which produce and acquire motion pictures for mainstream audiences; fox searchlight pictures, which produces and acquires specialized motion pictures; fox atomic, which produces and acquires motion pictures targeting the 17-24 year old demographic audience; and twentieth century fox animation, which produces feature length animated motion pictures. motion pictures produced and/or distributed by ffe in the united states and international territories since the beginning of fiscal 2006 include fantastic four, walk the line, ice age: the meltdown, x-men: the last stand, the devil wears prada, borat: cultural learnings of america for make benefit glorious nation of kazakhstan , night at the museum , fantastic four: rise of the silver surfer , live free or die hard , little miss sunshine , the last king of scotland , eragon , 28 weeks later , alvin and the chipmunks , the simpsons movie , dr. seuss horton hears a who! , jumper , what happens in vegas , 27 dresses , juno , the savages , the happening and alien vs. predator: requiem . ffe has already released or currently plans to release approximately 28 motion pictures in the united states in fiscal 2009, including x-files: i want to believe , australia , the day the earth stood still , marley and me , x-men origins: wolverine , night at the museum 2 , the secret life of bees , notorious , gentlemen broncos , the rocker , max payne , they came from upstairs , bride wars and dragonball . pursuant to an agreement with monarchy enterprises holdings b.v. ( meh ), the parent company of new regency in which the company has a 20% interest, and certain of meh subsidiaries, ffe distributes certain new regency films and all films co-financed by ffe and new regency in all media worldwide, excluding most international territories with respect to television rights. among its fiscal 2009 releases, ffe currently expects to distribute five films either fully financed by new regency or co-financed by ffe and new regency. motion picture companies, such as ffe, typically seek to generate revenues from various distribution channels. ffe derives its worldwide motion picture revenues primarily from four basic sources (set forth in general chronology of exploitation): (i) distribution of motion pictures for theatrical exhibition in the united states and canada and markets outside of the united states and canada ( international markets); (ii) distribution of motion pictures in various home media formats; (iii) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on pay-per-view, video-on-demand and premium pay television programming services; and (iv) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on free television networks, other broadcast program services, independent television stations and basic cable programming services, including certain services which are affiliates of the company. the company does not always have rights in all media of exhibition to all motion pictures that it releases, and does not necessarily distribute a given motion picture in all of the foregoing media in all markets. the company believes that the pre-release marketing of a feature film is an integral part of its motion picture distribution strategy and generally begins marketing efforts three to six months in advance of a film release date in any given territory. the company markets and distributes its films worldwide principally through its own distribution and marketing companies. through twentieth century fox home entertainment, inc., the company distributes motion pictures and other programming produced by units of ffe, its affiliates and other producers in the united states, canada and international markets in all home media formats, including the sale and rental of dvds. in fiscal 2008, the domestic home entertainment division released or re-released approximately 881 produced and acquired titles, including 30 new ffe film releases, approximately 624 catalog titles and approximately 227 television and non-theatrical titles. in international markets, the company distributed, produced and acquired titles both directly and through foreign distribution channels, with over 786 releases in fiscal 2008, including approximately 33 new ffe film releases, over 608 catalog titles and approximately 145 television and non-theatrical releases. in fiscal 2008, the company continued its worldwide home video distribution arrangement with metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ), releasing approximately 1,473 and 713 mgm home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs domestically and internationally, respectively. during fiscal 2008, the blu-ray high-definition ( hd ) disc format ( blu-ray ) was established as the market sole hd disc format, and the company increased the 3 table of contents number of blu-ray titles it released. during fiscal 2008, the domestic home entertainment division released 40 blu-ray titles, including 15 new ffe film releases and 25 catalog titles. in international markets, the company released 67 blu-ray titles, including 16 new ffe film releases and 51 catalog titles. the company also distributed six blu-ray titles (three new releases and three catalog titles) from mgm domestically and 16 titles (one new release and 15 catalog titles) internationally. units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs in the united states, canada and international markets to various third party and certain affiliated subscription pay television, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services. the license agreements reflecting the subscription pay television arrangements generally provide for a specified number of exhibitions of the program during a fixed term in exchange for a license fee that is based on a variety of factors, including the box office performance of each program and the number of subscribers to the service or system. among third party license agreements that units of ffe have in place in the united states for television exhibition of their motion pictures are exclusive subscription pay television license agreements with home box office ( hbo ), providing for the licensing of films initially released for theatrical exhibition through 2015, as well as arrangements with starz encore group. the license agreements reflecting the pay-per-view and video-on-demand services arrangements generally provide for a license fee based on a percentage of the licensee gross receipts from the exhibition of the program, and in some cases, a guaranteed minimum fee. in addition, these agreements generally provide for a minimum number of scheduled pay-per-view exhibitions and a minimum video-on-demand exhibition period during a fixed term. units of ffe also license motion pictures in the united states to direct broadcast satellite ( dbs ) pay-per-view services operated by directv and echostar communications corporation, as well as to pay-per-view and video-on-demand services operated by in demand l.l.c. in addition, units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs to third parties, including apple and amazon, for electronic sell-through over the internet, enabling consumers in the united states to acquire the right to permanently retain such programs. in international markets, units of ffe license motion pictures and other programming to leading third party pay television, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services, as well as to pay television and video-on-demand services operated by various affiliated entities. competition . motion picture production and distribution are highly competitive businesses. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. the number of motion pictures released by the company competitors, particularly the other major film studios, in any given period may create an oversupply of product in the market, which may reduce the company shares of gross box office admissions and may make it more difficult for the company motion pictures to succeed. the commercial success of the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by the company is affected substantially by the public unpredictable response to them. the competitive risks affecting the company home entertainment business include the number of home entertainment titles released by the company competitors that may create an oversupply of product in the market, competition among home media formats, such as dvds, and other methods of distribution, such as video-on-demand services. the company faces ongoing risks associated with controlling unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs. for a further discussion of issues relating to unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs, see intellectual property. television programming, production and distribution twentieth century fox television ( tcftv ) . during fiscal 2008, tcftv produced television programs for the fox broadcasting company ( fox ), abc television network ( abc ), cbs broadcasting, inc. ( cbs ), nbc television network ( nbc ), the cw television network ( the cw ), e! entertainment television, inc. ( e! ) and fox news channel ( fox news ). tcftv currently produces, or has orders to produce, episodes of the following television series: 24 , american dad, bones , the cleveland show , dollhouse , do not disturb , family guy , king of the hill , prison break, the simpsons and sit down, shut up for fox; boston legal and life on mars 4 table of contents for abc; the ex list , how i met your mother , game show in my head and the unit for cbs; my name is earl for nbc; and sons of anarchy for fx. generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes for exhibition on the network during the license period. all other distribution rights, including international and off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by tcftv, utilized by other units of the company or sold to third parties. television programs generally are produced under contracts that provide for license fees that may cover only a portion of the anticipated production costs. as these costs have increased in recent years, the resulting deficit between production costs and license fees for domestic first-run programming has also increased. therefore, additional licensing is often critical to the financial success of a series. successful u.s. network television series are, for example, (i) licensed for first-run exhibition in canadian and international markets, (ii) released in dvd box sets, (iii) licensed for off-network exhibition in the united states (including in syndication or to cable programmers), (iv) licensed for further television exhibition in international markets and (v) made available for electronic sell-through and streaming, including individual episodes and full series. generally, a series must be broadcast for at least three to four television seasons for there to be a sufficient number of episodes to offer the series in syndication in the united states or to cable and dbs programmers in the united states. the decision of a television network to continue a series through an entire television season or to renew a series for another television season depends largely on the series audience ratings. twentieth television . twentieth television licenses both television programming and feature films for domestic syndication to television stations and basic cable services in the united states. twentieth television distributes a program portfolio that includes the company library of television and film assets, and first-run programming produced by its production companies for sales to the local stations, including the stations owned and operated by the company, as well as to basic cable networks. first-run programs distributed by twentieth television include the court shows divorce court , judge alex and cristina court , and the daytime talk show, the morning show with mike and juliet . twentieth television derives revenue from off-network, theatrical and first-run program sales in the form of cash license fees paid by both broadcast and cable licensees, and from the sales of national advertising units retained by twentieth television in its programs. twentieth television licenses such shows as my name is earl , family guy , american dad, king of the hill, m*a*s*h, boston legal, bones, malcolm in the middle and the simpsons to cable and broadcast networks. twentieth television also manages and distributes the long running series, cops and america most wanted , and oversees the advertising sales of third party distributors. fox television studios ( ftvs ) . ftvs is a program supplier to the major u.s. and international broadcast and cable networks. for the u.s. market, ftvs is currently producing burn notice for usa network, saving grace for tnt, the shield and the riches for fx, the late-night talkshow with spike feresten for fox and the girls next door for e!. ftvs is also producing, in conjunction with fox international channels ( fic ), the series mental , which fic will broadcast in certain international territories beginning in fiscal 2009. competition . similar to motion picture production and distribution, production and distribution of television programming is extremely competitive. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. in addition, television networks have affiliated production companies from which they are increasingly obtaining their programming, which has reduced the demand for programming from other non-affiliated parties. motion picture and television libraries the company motion picture and television library (the fox library ) consists of varying rights to several thousand previously released motion pictures and many well-known television programs. the motion pictures in the fox library include many successful and well-known titles, such as the sound of music , mrs. doubtfire , planet of 5 table of contents the apes , dr. dolittle , the x-men trilogy, the day after tomorrow , the ice age series, sideways , walk the line , the devil wears prada , little miss sunshine , borat: cultural learnings of america for make benefit glorious nation of kazakhstan , night at the museum , alvin and the chipmunks , fantastic four: rise of the silver surfer , live free or die hard , juno , dr. seuss horton hears a who! , and six of the top 25 domestic box office grossing films of all time, which are titanic (together with paramount pictures corporation), star wars , star wars episode i: the phantom menace , star wars episode ii: attack of the clones , star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith and return of the jedi . the fox library contains varying rights to many television series and made-for-television motion pictures. the television programming in the fox library consists of such classic series as the mary tyler moore show , m*a*s*h , hill street blues , doogie howser, m.d. , l.a. law , the wonder years , the practice , ally mcbeal , angel , dharma &amp; greg , in living color , the x-files , buffy the vampire slayer and nypd blue , as well as such current hits as the simpsons , king of the hill , 24 , family guy , futurama , my name is earl, how i met your mother, boston legal , prison break , bones , american dad and the unit . television the company is engaged in the operation of broadcast television stations, the broadcasting of network programming in the united states and the development, production and broadcasting of television programming in asia. fox television stations as of june 30, 2008, fox television stations, inc. ( fox television stations ) owned and operated 35 full power stations, including stations located in nine of the top ten largest designated market areas ( dmas ). fox television stations owns and operates two stations in nine dmas, including new york, los angeles and chicago, the first, second and third largest dmas, respectively. of the 35 full power stations, 25 stations are affiliates of fox ( fox affiliates ). for a description of the programming offered to fox affiliates, see fox broadcasting company. in addition, fox television stations owns and operates ten stations affiliated with mynetworktv, inc. ( mynetworktv ). in july 2008, fox television stations completed the sale of eight of the company 25 owned and operated fox affiliate television stations to an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of oak hill capital partners iii, l.p. for approximately $1.1 billion in cash (the stations sale ). the television stations included in the stations sale were: wjw in cleveland, ohio; kdvr in denver, colorado; ktvi in st. louis, missouri; wdaf in kansas city, missouri; witi in milwaukee, wisconsin; kstu in salt lake city, utah; wbrc in birmingham, alabama; and wghp in greensboro, north carolina. 6 table of contents the following table lists certain information about each of the television stations owned and operated by fox television stations as of june 30, 2008, excluding the stations sold in connection with the stations sale. unless otherwise noted, all stations are fox affiliates. dma/rank station channel type percentage of u.s. television households reached (1) new york, ny 1 wnyw 5 vhf 6.6 % wwor (2) 9 vhf los angeles, ca 2 kttv 11 vhf 5.0 % kcop (2) 13 vhf chicago, il 3 wfld 32 uhf 3.1 % wpwr (2) 50 uhf philadelphia, pa 4 wtxf 29 uhf 2.6 % dallas, tx 5 kdfw 4 vhf 2.2 % kdfi (2) 27 uhf boston, ma 7 wfxt 25 uhf 2.1 % atlanta, ga 8 waga 5 vhf 2.0 % washington, dc 9 wttg 5 vhf 2.0 % wdca (2) 20 uhf houston, tx 10 kriv 26 uhf 1.8 % ktxh (2) 20 uhf detroit, mi 11 wjbk 2 vhf 1.7 % phoenix, az 12 ksaz 10 vhf 1.6 % kutp (2) 45 uhf tampa, fl 13 wtvt 13 vhf 1.6 % minneapolis, mn (3) 15 kmsp 9 vhf 1.5 % wftc (2) 29 uhf orlando, fl 19 wofl 35 uhf 1.3 % wrbw (2) 65 uhf baltimore, md 24 wutb (2) 24 uhf 1.0 % memphis, tn 47 whbq 13 vhf 0.6 % austin, tx 51 ktbc 7 vhf 0.6 % gainesville, fl 162 wogx 51 uhf 0.1 % total 37.4 % source: nielsen media research, january 2008 (1) vhf television stations transmit on channels 2 through 13 and uhf television stations on channels 14 through 69. uhf television stations in many cases have a weaker signal and therefore do not achieve the same coverage as vhf television stations. to address this disparity, the federal communications commission (the fcc ) applies a discount (the uhf discount ) which attributes only 50% of the television households in a local television market to the audience reach of a uhf television station for purposes of calculating whether that station owner complies with the national station ownership cap imposed by fcc regulations and by statute. in addition, the coverage of two commonly owned stations in the same market is counted only once. the percentages listed are rounded and do not take into account the uhf discount. for more information regarding the fcc national station ownership cap, see regulation television. (2) mynetworktv affiliate. (3) the company also owns and operates kftc, channel 26, bemidji, mn as a satellite station of wftc, channel 29, minneapolis, mn. 7 table of contents fox broadcasting company ( fox ) fox has 216 fox affiliates, including 25 stations owned and operated by the company, which reach approximately 99% of all u.s. television households. in general, each week fox regularly delivers to its affiliates 15 hours of prime-time programming and 90 minutes of late-night programming on saturday. fox prime-time programming features such series as the simpsons , prison break, bones , 24 and house ; unscripted series such as american idol ; and various movies and specials. in addition, a significant component of fox programming consists of sports programming, with fox providing to its affiliates live coverage (including post-season) of the national football conference of the national football league (the nfl ) and major league baseball ( mlb ), as well as live coverage of the premier racing series (the sprint cup series) of the national association of stock car auto racing ( nascar ) and the bowl championship series ( bcs ). fox also provides a four-hour block of children programming on saturday morning programmed by 4kids entertainment ( 4kids ), a children entertainment company. fox agreement with 4kids extends through the 2008-2009 broadcast season. fox prime-time line-up is intended to appeal primarily to target audiences of 18 to 49-year old adults, the demographic group that advertisers seek to reach most often. during the 2007-2008 traditional september to may broadcast season, fox ranked first in prime-time programming based on viewership of adults aged 18 to 49 (fox had a 4.3 rating and an 11 share, cbs and abc each had a 3.0 rating and an 8 share and nbc had a 2.8 rating and an 8 share). the median age of the fox viewer is 43 years, as compared to 48 years for nbc, 49 years for abc and 53 years for cbs. fox obtains programming from major television studios and independent television production companies pursuant to license agreements. the terms of those agreements generally provide fox with the right to broadcast a television series for a minimum of four seasons. fox licenses its film programming from major film studios and independent film production companies. national sports programming, such as the nfl, mlb and nascar programming, is obtained under license agreements with professional sports leagues or organizations. fox current licenses with the nfl, mlb, and nascar extend until the 2011 nfl season, the 2013 mlb season and the 2014 nascar season. fox also has the right to broadcast the bcs through 2010. fox provides programming to the fox affiliates in accordance with affiliation agreements of varying durations, which grant to each affiliate the right to broadcast network television programming on the affiliated station. such agreements typically run three or more years and have staggered expiration dates. these affiliation agreements generally require fox affiliates to carry fox programming in all time periods in which fox programming is offered to those affiliates, subject to certain exceptions stated in the affiliation agreements. mynetworktv mynetworktv is a primetime general entertainment broadcast television network. mynetworktv currently has 175 affiliates, including ten stations owned and operated by the company, which reach approximately 97% of u.s. households. mynetworktv 2008 fall schedule will focus on branded nights of programming, including entertainment shows on monday, reality crime shows on tuesday, comedy on wednesdays, movies on thursdays and saturdays and wwe smackdown on fridays. competition . the network television broadcasting business is highly competitive. fox and mynetworktv directly compete for programming, viewers and advertising with abc, nbc, cbs and the cw. abc, nbc and cbs each broadcasts a significantly greater number of hours of programming than fox and mynetworktv and, accordingly, may be able to designate or change time periods in which programming is to be broadcast with greater flexibility than fox or mynetworktv. fox and mynetworktv also compete with other non-network sources of television service, including cable television and dbs services. other sources of competition may include home video exhibition, digital video recorders ( dvr ), the internet and home computer usage. in addition, future technological developments may affect competition within the television marketplace. 8 table of contents each of the stations owned and operated by fox television stations also competes for advertising revenues with other television stations and radio and cable systems in its respective market area and with other advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail and internet websites. all of the stations owned and operated by fox television stations are located in highly competitive markets. additional elements which are material to the competitive position of each of the television stations include management experience, authorized power and assigned frequency of that station. competition for sales of broadcast advertising time is based primarily on the anticipated and actually delivered size and demographic characteristics of audiences as determined by various rating services, price, the time of day when the advertising is to be broadcast, competition from the other broadcast networks, cable television systems, dbs services and other media and general economic conditions. competition for audiences is based primarily on the selection of programming, the acceptance of which is dependent on the reaction of the viewing public that is often difficult to predict. star star group limited ( star ) engages in the development, production and broadcasting of television programming to 53 countries throughout asia. star offers 63 channels in ten languages. star owned and affiliated channels are distributed in the following regions: india; greater china; indonesia; the rest of south east asia; the middle east and pakistan; united kingdom and europe; and north america, reaching approximately 300 million people in 146 million households. star programming is distributed primarily via satellite to local cable and direct-to-home ( dth ) operators for distribution to their subscribers. star is one of the leading providers of television programming in asia. of the 63 channels currently offered by star, 35 channels are wholly-owned and operated by star, including, among others, star plus, star chinese channel, channel [v], star world, star movies, star chinese movies and xing kong wei shi. star channels are distributed both on a pay television and free-to-air basis. in addition, star provides 28 channels that are either owned and operated by third parties or are joint ventures between the company and other entities, including phoenix satellite television holdings limited ( phoenix ), espn star sports and media content &amp; communications services (india) private limited ( mccs ). star has an approximate 18% interest in phoenix, a company listed on the growth enterprise market of the stock exchange of hong kong limited. phoenix owns and operates chinese language general entertainment, movie and current affairs channels, all of which are targeted at chinese audiences around the world and are primarily distributed on a free or an encrypted basis via pay television platforms in asia and europe and pay television platforms in the united states. espn star sports, a 50/50 joint venture between star and espn, is the leading sports broadcaster in asia and operates 17 channels in different languages. mccs, an approximate 26% star owned joint venture with the anand bazaar patrika group, owns and operates three 24-hour news and current affairs channels. star owns an approximate 26% stake in balaji telefilms limited ( balaji ), which is one of the largest television content production companies in india, the shares of which are listed on the stock exchange, mumbai and the national stock exchange of india. balaji currently produces certain hindi-language serials broadcast on star plus. in india, star has expanded into regional language programming. star also holds a 20% stake in tata sky limited ( tata sky ), which owns and operates a dth platform in india. star also has an approximate 22% stake in hathway cable &amp; datacom private limited, a multi-system cable operator in india that also provides broadband internet services. in january 2008, star formed a 50/50 joint venture with den digital entertainment networks private limited to operate a television channel distribution business in india, nepal and bhutan. the joint venture exclusively distributes star owned and affiliated channels in these territories. 9 table of contents star holds a 20% interest in pt cakrawala andalas televisi, an indonesian free-to-air terrestrial television broadcaster. star also has a 49% interest in channel [v] thailand. star has also licensed the channel [v] brand in australia and korea. the primary sources of programming on star owned and affiliated channels include rights to broadcast over many territories in asia and other parts of the world: (i) original indian and chinese television programming produced, commissioned or acquired by star, including in hd; (ii) many of asia most popular sporting events, such as international cricket council cricket; (iii) chinese feature films distributed by third parties; (iv) other feature films and general entertainment programs distributed by third parties; (v) an extensive contemporary chinese film library comprising over 650 titles; and (vi) an extensive hindi film library comprising over 490 titles and an extensive hindi television program library comprising over 430 titles. star other sources of programming include rights to broadcast music videos, as well as music and youth-oriented programming, produced and carried on channel [v]. competition . generally, star competes with various channels for a share of subscription, distribution, channel position, ratings and programming. in india, the pay television broadcasting industry has several participants, and star indian entertainment channels compete with both pay and free-to-air channels since they are delivered by common cable. star also competes in india to acquire both hindi film and programming rights and, through its 50% owned sports joint venture, espn star sports, for sports broadcast rights, such as cricket rights. in mainland china, star competes primarily in two distinct markets for which it has received government approvals to distribute its services. one is among three-star and above hotels and other approved organizations and institutions that are allowed to receive overseas satellite television channels throughout mainland china. the second is among general households in guangdong that can view local chinese channels. in taiwan, star competes with various local and foreign satellite channels, depending on programming genre. cable network programming the company produces and licenses news, business news, sports, general entertainment and movie programming for distribution to distributors in the united states and internationally. fox news . fox news owns and operates the fox news channel, a 24-hour all news national cable channel currently available to approximately 93 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research, as well as fox business network which launched to 30 million subscribers in october 2007. fox news also produces a weekend political commentary show, fox news sunday , for broadcast on local fox television stations throughout the united states, and the nationally syndicated morning television program, the morning show with mike and juliet . fox news, through its fox news edge service, licenses news feeds to fox affiliates and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts throughout the united states and abroad. fox news also produces and runs the websites, foxnews.com and foxbusiness.com, and owns and produces the national fox news radio network which licenses news updates, long form programs, and the fox news talk channel, to local radio stations and to satellite radio providers. fsn . fox sports net, inc. ( fsn, inc. ) is the largest regional sports network ( rsn ) programmer in the united states, focusing on live professional and major collegiate home team sports events. fsn, inc. sports programming business currently consists primarily of ownership interests in 12 rsns, including numerous sub-regional feeds (the fsn rsns ) and national sports programming, which operates fsn ( fsn ), a national sports programming service. fsn, inc. also is affiliated with, through fsn, an additional nine rsns that 10 table of contents are not owned by fsn, inc. (the fsn affiliated rsns ). fsn provides the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns with national sports programming, featuring original and licensed sports-related programming and live and replay sporting events. the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns reach approximately 89 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research and have rights to telecast live games of 68 of 82 u.s. professional sports teams in mlb, the national basketball association ( nba ) and the national hockey league ( nhl ); numerous collegiate conferences; and college and high school sports teams. fx . currently reaching approximately 93 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research, fx is a general entertainment network that telecasts a growing roster of original series and films, as well as acquired television series and motion pictures. fx lineup for the 2008-2009 season includes the following critically acclaimed and popular original programming: the emmy &reg; and golden globe &reg; award-winning drama series, the shield and nip/tuck ; the morgan spurlock documentary series thirty days ; and the critically acclaimed rescue me . also included in the 2008-2009 season line-up is the fourth season of the comedy series it always sunny in philadelphia , the second season of the emmy &reg; and golden globe &reg; nominated drama series, damages, and the freshman series, sons of anarchy . current and upcoming syndicated series include king of the hill , that 70 show , spin city, two and a half men, malcolm in the middle and the bernie mac show. during the 2008-2009 season, fx will also showcase the television premieres of theatrical motion pictures, including superman returns, the devil wears prada, the departed and live free or die hard . the company also produces and distributes fx hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in hd, which launched in october 2007. speed . currently reaching approximately 72 million households in the united states according to nielsen media research, speed brings viewers into the world of auto and motorcycle racing, showcasing nascar races, events and original programming, as well as other top racing series, such as formula one, grand american road racing, american lemans, american motorcycle association, world superbike and motogp racing and events. speed popular original series pinks and pinks all out are reality-based racing shows that pit amateur racers against each other in a unique drag racing format. speed also is distributed to subscribers in mexico, canada and latin america. the company also produces and distributes speed hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in a high definition format, which launched in february 2008. fuel tv . fuel tv is the only domestic 24-hour programming service dedicated to action sports and the lifestyle surrounding it. fuel tv covers both competitive and performance action in the arenas of skateboarding, surfing, bmx, freestyle motocross, snowboarding and wakeboarding. programming includes u.s. and international action sports events and competitions, as well as original series and specials about top action sports athletes and their music, art and culture from a global perspective. fox college sports . fox college sports consists of three regionally-aligned networks, fcs pacific, fcs central and fcs atlantic. fox college sports provides live and delayed collegiate events from the nation top collegiate conferences, coaches shows and collegiate highlight and magazine-format programming from the fsn rsns and certain of the fsn affiliated rsns across the country. fox movie channel . fox movie channel ( fmc ) is hollywood first and only studio-based movie network. fmc airs twentieth century fox films, as well as documentaries and original series that explore the moviemaking process from script to screen. fox soccer channel . fox soccer channel is an english-language programming service offering comprehensive coverage of world-class soccer in the united states. fox pan american sports . the company has a 38% equity interest in fox pan american sports llc ( fpas ), with hicks, muse, tate &amp; furst incorporated owning the remainder. fpas owns and operates spanish-language sports businesses, including the fox sports latin america network (a spanish-language sports network distributed to subscribers in certain caribbean and central and south american nations outside of brazil) and fox sports en espa&ntilde;ol (the first spanish-language sports programming service to be distributed in the united states). 11 table of contents fox reality channel . fox reality channel is a 24-hour national programming service that airs off-network and syndicated unscripted programming made popular on major u.s. and international networks. fox reality channel lineup for the 2008-2009 season includes the following original programming: the weekly series reality binge which launched in july 2008; long way down to launch in august 2008; the third annual fox reality channel really awards and gimme my reality show to launch in october 2008; my bare lady 2: open for business to launch in november 2008; and the third season of solitary (solitary 3.0) to launch in january 2009. fox reality channel 2008-2009 lineup also includes original programming for its website, including reality binge webisodes. big ten network . the company owns an approximate 49% interest in the big ten network, a 24-hour national programming service dedicated to the big ten conference and big ten athletics, academics and related programming. the big ten network launched in august 2007 along with big ten network hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in hd. fox international channels ( fic ). fic owns and operates channels in various countries in europe, latin america, the caribbean and asia, including: the fox channel, fox life, fx, speed and utilisma in latin america; fox, fox crime, fox life, fx, cult, next and the history channel in italy; fox in germany, fx in the united kingdom; fox and fox life in japan; fox, fox crime, fox life, next and fx in portugal; the voyage channel and fox life in france; fox in spain and korea; the history channel in india; and fox life and fox crime in several countries in eastern europe; fox life in poland; fox life, fx, fx vod, fox sports and fox sports hd in turkey. fic also manages the universal channel in latin america. the fox, fx and fox life branded channels have first-run and library series programming and theatrical movies acquired primarily from major film studios, as well as original productions. cult is a factual entertainment channel featuring arts and cultural programming. the history channel provides factual series and specials acquired primarily from a&amp;e television networks. the voyage channel is focused on travel related programming. fox crime is focused on crime related programming and next is a hd documentary channel. fic owns a 32.5% equity interest in laptv, a partnership which distributes three premium pay television channels (movie city east and west, cinecanal east and west and its multiplex channel cinecanal 2) and one basic television channel (the film zone east and west) in latin america (excluding brazil). such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of twentieth century fox and three other studio partners in the english language with spanish subtitles. fic has voting control over an additional 22.5% interest in laptv. fic also owns a 51% equity interest in real estate tv limited, a company which owns and distributes both a television channel and a video-based website showcase to u.k.-based buyers of international properties in development, as well as a majority equity interest elite sports limited, a company which owns and distributes babytv, a 24-hour channel dedicated to infants and toddlers under three years old to 65 countries outside of the united states. national geographic . the company owns a 52.2% interest in ngc network international llc and ngc network latin america llc (collectively ngc international ), with ngt, inc., a subsidiary of the national geographic society ( ngt ), holding a 26.8% interest, and a subsidiary of bskyb holding the remaining 21% interest. ngc international produces and distributes the national geographic channel in various international markets. ngc international also produces and distributes the national geographic channel hd, the nat geo adventure channel, the nat geo wild channel and the nat geo music channel in international markets. the national geographic channel is currently shown in 34 languages and in approximately 166 countries internationally, including the united states. the company holds an approximate 67% interest in ngc-network united states, llc, which produces and distributes the national geographic channel and the national geographic channel hd in the united states, with ngt holding the remaining interest. the national geographic channel currently reaches approximately 67.7 million households in the united states according to nielsen media research. 12 table of contents the national geographic channels air documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture. competition. general. cable network programming is another highly competitive business. cable networks compete for distribution and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with free-to-air broadcast television, radio, print media, motion picture theaters, dvds, internet, wireless and portable viewing devices and other sources of information and entertainment. important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. fox news. fox news channel primary competition comes from the cable networks cnn, msnbc and cnn headline news. fox business network primary competition comes from the cable networks cnbc and bloomberg television. fox news channel and fox business network also compete for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks and free-to-air broadcast television networks. sports programming operations. a number of basic and pay television programming services, such as espn and cstv, as well as free-to-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that targets the fsn rsns audience. fsn is the leading programming service distributing a full range of sports programming on both a national and regional level. on a national level, fsn primary competitor is espn and, to a lesser extent, espn2. in regional markets, the fsn rsns compete with other regional sports networks, including those operated by team owners, cable television systems, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors. in addition, the fsn rsns and fsn compete, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. the fsn rsns compete for local and regional rights with local broadcast television stations, other local and regional sports networks, including sports networks launched by team owners and distribution outlets, such as cable television systems. fsn competes for national rights principally with a number of national cable services that specialize in or carry sports programming, including sports networks launched by the leagues and conferences, and television superstations that distribute sports. independent syndicators also compete by acquiring and reselling such rights nationally, regionally and locally. distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, sometimes contract directly with the sports teams in their service area for the right to distribute a number of those teams games on their systems. in certain markets, the owners of distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, also own one or more of the professional teams in the region, increasing their ability to launch competing networks and also limiting the professional sports rights available for acquisition by fsn rsns. fx. fx faces competition from a number of basic cable and pay television programming services, such as usa, tnt, spike tv, hbo and showtime, as well as free-to-air broadcast networks that provide programming that targets the same viewing audience as fx. fx also faces competition from these programming services in the acquisition of distribution rights to movie and series programming. direct broadcast satellite television the company engages in the direct broadcast satellite business through its subsidiary, sky italia. the company also owns equity interests in bskyb and premiere, which are engaged in the dbs business (for a description of the businesses of these equity interests, please see discussion under heading equity interests ). sky italia sky italia currently distributes over 170 channels of basic, premium and pay-per-view programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in italy. this programming includes exclusive rights to popular sporting events, newly-released movies and sky italia original programming, such as sky news , italy first 24-hour news channel. as of june 30, 2008, sky italia had almost 4.6 million subscribers. 13 table of contents competition . the number of pay television subscribers with services in italy other than sky italia is minimal; however, competition in the italian pay television market is growing and is expected to continue to increase. sky italia competition includes companies that offer video, audio, interactive programming, telephony, data and other information and entertainment services, including broadband internet providers, digital terrestrial transmission ( dtt ) services, wireless companies and companies that are developing new media technologies. in fiscal 2008, the competitive dtt services in italy expanded to include a pay television service, as well as its existing pay-per-view offerings of soccer games previously available exclusively on the sky italia platform. the company is currently prohibited from providing a dtt service under regulations of the european commission. competition is encouraged through the regulatory environment which requires sky italia to wholesale its premium programming, to limit the length and exclusivity of certain of its premium programming contracts, as well as to provide third parties with access to the sky italia platform. magazines and inserts the company engages in marketing operations, primarily the publication of free-standing inserts and the provision of in-store marketing products and services, and magazine publishing. news america marketing group the company u.s. marketing operations are organized under news america marketing group ( namg ). namg consists primarily of free-standing insert publications and in-store marketing products and services. namg is one of the two largest publishers of free-standing inserts in the united states. free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, sweepstakes, rebates and other consumer offers, which are distributed to consumers through insertion primarily into local sunday newspapers. advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay namg to produce free-standing inserts, and namg contracts with and pays newspapers to include the free-standing inserts primarily into the newspapers sunday editions. namg produces over 69 million free-standing inserts more than 50 times a year, which are inserted in approximately 1,400 sunday newspapers throughout the united states. namg, through an affiliate, also produces over six million free-standing inserts approximately 15 times annually, which are inserted into over 150 canadian newspapers in canada. namg is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged goods manufacturers, with products in more than 36,000 supermarkets, drug stores and mass merchandisers worldwide. smartsource &reg; is the brand name that is linked with namg vast assortment of marketing products, including, among others, free-standing inserts and namg instant coupon machines. the smartsource &reg; brand currently reaches approximately 150 million consumers weekly. the smartsource igroup manages namg portfolio of database marketing and on-line marketing products and services. the database marketing business, branded smartsource direct, provides database marketing and technology solutions for both retailers and manufacturers. the smartsource savings network, which includes smartsource.com, is an internet-based network of approximately 100 newspaper, retailer and lifestyle sites connected through a common platform that currently delivers printable coupons, samples and other consumer marketing to an audience of approximately 65 million consumers. competition . namg competes against other providers of marketing products and services, including those that provide promotional or advertising inserts and direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, as well as those that provide trade and in-store advertisements and promotions. competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, and rate of coupon redemption. 14 table of contents magazines united states . the company publishes the weekly standard , a weekly magazine offering political commentary, in the united states. australia . news magazines pty. ltd ( news magazines ) produces both direct sale magazines and inserts for the company australian newspapers. news magazines publishes more than 20 direct sale magazines, including: insideout , a home and lifestyle magazine; donna hay , a food and lifestyle magazine; big league , a custom magazine for the national rugby league; vogue australia ; vogue living ; gq australia ; australian good taste ; delicious. ; notebook: ; and gardening australia . news magazines also publishes sunday magazine , which is an insert in the company australian newspapers in sydney and melbourne. in addition, news magazines publishes alpha , which is a sport and lifestyle men magazine, which only is sold together with one of the company australian newspapers. competition . the magazines all compete for circulation and advertising revenue with other published products, in their same categories, as well as other forms of media. competition for circulation is based on the editorial and informational content of each publication and its price. competition for advertising is based on circulation levels, reader demographics, advertising rates and advertiser results. newspapers and information services the company is engaged in the newspaper and information services business, primarily through its subsidiaries news international, news limited, dow jones and the new york post. news international limited ( news international ) news international owns the companies which publish the times , the sunday times , the sun and the news of the world in the united kingdom and ireland. sales of these four newspapers account for approximately one-third of all national newspapers sold in the united kingdom. both the times , a daily published monday through saturday, and the sunday times are leading quality newspapers. the sun , published each morning monday through saturday, and the news of the world , published on sunday, are both popular, mass market newspapers. the average paid circulation for each of these four national newspapers during the six months ended june 30, 2008 was approximately: the times 620,059; the sunday times 1,193,450; the sun 3,120,512; and news of the world 3,207,103. news international also publishes thelondonpaper , a free newspaper distributed by hand in central london each afternoon monday through friday. the printing of all four of news international national newspapers (except saturday and sunday supplements) takes place principally in its four printing facilities located in england, scotland and ireland. in fiscal 2008, the company completed the updating of the printing facilities of all news international newspapers to high speed, full color printing presses. news international also owns the companies which publish the times literary supplement , a weekly literary review, and love it! , a weekly real-life magazine. news limited news limited is the largest newspaper publisher in australia, owning approximately 147 daily, sunday, weekly, bi-weekly and tri-weekly newspapers, of which three are free commuter titles and 104 are suburban publications (including 17 of which news limited has a 50% interest). news limited publishes the only nationally distributed general interest newspaper in australia, the leading metropolitan newspapers in each of the major australian cities of sydney, melbourne, brisbane, adelaide, perth, hobart and darwin and the leading suburban newspapers in the suburbs of sydney, melbourne, adelaide, brisbane and perth. news limited daily and sunday newspapers account for more than 69% of the total circulation of all daily and sunday newspapers (excluding suburban and regional newspapers) published in australia. 15 table of contents news limited principal daily newspapers in australia are: the australian; the daily telegraph , published in sydney; the herald sun , published in melbourne; the courier-mail, published in brisbane; the advertiser , published in adelaide; the mercury , published in hobart; and the northern territory news , published in darwin. the australian , which is australia only general interest national daily newspaper, is printed in six cities and distributed nationwide. news limited other principal daily newspapers in australia are mass circulation, regional newspapers with broad-based readerships and are published and distributed regionally. the average monday to saturday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers during fiscal 2008 was approximately as follows: the australian 163,000; the daily telegraph 369,000; the herald sun 524,000; the courier-mail 235,000; the advertiser 201,000; the mercury 49,000; and the northern territory news 23,000. news limited principal sunday newspapers in australia are: the sunday telegraph , published in sydney; the sunday herald sun , published in melbourne; the sunday mail, published in brisbane; the sunday mail , published in adelaide; the sunday times , published in perth; the sunday tasmanian , published in hobart; and the sunday territorian, published in darwin. all these newspapers are mass circulation, metropolitan sunday newspapers with broad-based readerships reflecting the diversity of the populations of the cities in which they are published. the average paid circulation of each of these sunday newspapers during fiscal 2008 was approximately as follows: the sunday telegraph 668,000; the sunday herald sun 623,000; the sunday mail (brisbane ) 579,000; the sunday mail (adelaide) 317,000; the sunday times 336,000; the sunday tasmanian 60,000; and the sunday territorian 22,000 . the other newspapers which news limited owns and publishes in australia are distributed to a wide range of readers in urban, suburban and rural areas and are principally weekly publications. the majority of such newspapers are free-distribution suburban publications. in the sydney suburban markets, news limited owns 24 weekly newspapers; in melbourne, 33 weekly newspapers; in brisbane, 19 weekly newspapers; in adelaide, 11 weekly newspapers; and in perth, news limited 50% owned suburban group publishes 17 weekly newspapers. the aggregate average weekly circulations of these suburban newspapers for the six months ended march 31, 2008 was approximately 5,209,000 homes. in addition to these newspapers, news limited also publishes 15 other publications (13 monthlies and two weeklies) with an average circulation for the six months ended march 31, 2008 of approximately 433,000 homes for the monthly titles and approximately 81,000 for the two weekly titles. news limited suburban newspapers are leading publications in terms of advertising and circulation in each of their respective markets. news limited other newspapers in australia are regional newspapers, circulating throughout broader, less densely populated areas. except for 41 of its suburban newspapers and four regional newspapers, news limited australian newspapers are produced and printed in facilities owned by the company. dow jones . dow jones provides global business and financial news, information and insight through multiple channels of media. dow jones consumer media business includes the wall street journal, barron and marketwatch franchises (including print, online, television and radio), and its enterprise media business includes factiva, newswires, client solutions, indexes and other products and services. dow jones local media business provides news and information of general interest to local communities throughout the united states. consumer media . dow jones consumer media business offers business and financial information content to the consumer market around the globe. the wall street journal . the wall street journal is one of the united states largest daily national newspapers. during fiscal 2008, the wall street journal had average print circulation of 1.7 million. the wall 16 table of contents street journal three major national editions are printed at 17 owned printing plants located throughout the united states, as well as at additional contract printers. the wall street journal also sells regional advertising in 18 regional editions and pre-printed advertisements in various subsets of the circulation. barron . barron is a weekly magazine that caters to financial professionals, individual investors and others interested in financial markets. in the fiscal year ended june 30, 2008, barron had an average weekly circulation of approximately 300,000. barron is printed in all of the wall street journal printing plants, as well as additional contract printers. the wall street journal digital network . the wall street journal digital network consists of wsj.com, marketwatch.com, barron s.com, and related sites and, as of june 30, 2008, served more than 25 million visitors per month with more than 400 million page views. wsj.com is the largest paid subscription news website on the internet, with over one million subscribers as of june 30, 2008. certain sections of wsj.com are also available to non-subscribers. marketwatch.com covers the pulse of the markets for engaged investors, and is a leading provider of business, company and market news, financial information and analytical tools. barron online is a stand-alone subscription product, which had more than 140,000 subscribers as of june 30, 2008. international editions of the wall street journal . the wall street journal europe, which had an average circulation of 81,000 during fiscal 2008, is headquartered in brussels, belgium and printed in belgium, france, germany, ireland, israel, italy, spain, switzerland, turkey and the united kingdom. the wall street journal asia, which had an average circulation of 80,000 during fiscal 2008, is headquartered in hong kong and printed in hong kong, indonesia, japan, korea, malaysia, the philippines, singapore, taiwan and thailand. dow jones also publishes the wall street journal special editions, which are a collection of the wall street journal pages in local languages. as of june 30, 2008, special editions were distributed as part of 42 newspapers in 46 countries. other channels of distribution and publications. dow jones consumer media business also includes other channels of content distribution, including: television; radio/audio; online video; consumer electronic licensing; and the wall street journal classroom, campus and sunday editions. dow jones also publishes the far eastern economic review, a hong kong-based monthly periodical. in addition, efinancialnews holdings ltd., based in london, serves the european financial services industry with print, online, training and events businesses. enterprise media . dow jones enterprise media business offers business and financial information content to businesses and financial professionals around the globe. content technology solutions. content technology solutions provides real-time news and research tools to global enterprises through dow jones factiva, dow jones newswires and its licensing and consulting businesses. dow jones factiva is a leading provider of global business content, research products and services to global enterprises mainly in the finance, corporate, professional services and government sectors, with approximately 1.8 million paying subscribers as of june 30, 2008. dow jones newswires is a premier provider of real-time business news and information for financial professionals around the world. as of june 30, 2008, dow jones newswires had a dedicated staff of approximately 850 journalists, in addition to drawing on the global resources of the wall street journal and the agence france-presse. through dow jones client solutions, dow jones licenses news, data, investment tools and other online applications to financial services firms, media companies and corporations, and provides the consulting services to integrate this information into their intranets, crm systems and retail websites. dow jones indexes licenses the dow jones industrial averages and other indexes as the basis for trading options, futures, unit trusts, annuities, exchange traded funds, mutual funds, derivatives and specialized 17 table of contents structured products. dow jones indexes offers thousands of indexes, including a variety of specialty indexes. dow jones indexes also has a family of hedge fund indexes. through dow jones reprint solutions, dow jones sells print or electronic reprints of the wall street journal and barron stories. dow jones financial information services . dow jones financial information services serves the areas of private equity, venture capital, debt/bankruptcy, hedge funds and energy/commodities with newsletters, conferences and databases. dow jones business &amp; relationship intelligence . dow jones business &amp; relationship intelligence delivers timely and comprehensive executive and company information to sales and research professionals, plus media organizations, using unique, patented technologies and relationship mapping that harvest information from the internet and alert users to business opportunities. local media . dow jones local media business is comprised of its wholly-owned subsidiary ottaway newspapers, inc. ( ottaway ). ottaway publishes local media print publications, including eight general interest dailies published in california, maine, massachusetts, new hampshire, new york, oregon and pennsylvania. during fiscal 2008, average circulation for these dailies was approximately 268,500, with sunday circulation of approximately 299,200. ottaway also publishes 15 weekly newspapers and more than 36 other publications. strategic alliances. smartmoney . smartmoney is a 50/50 joint venture between dow jones and hearst. smartmoney magazine, published monthly, had circulation of more than 817,000 copies in the fiscal year ended june 30, 2008. smartmoney also includes smartmoney.com and smartmoney custom solutions. vedomosti . vedomosti is a joint venture owned equally by dow jones, pearson plc and independent media, that publishes a russian language business daily. vedomosti had circulation of approximately 63,000 in the fiscal year ended june 30, 2008, and includes original content and content from the wall street journal and the financial times translated into russian. stoxx, ltd . ( stoxx ). stoxx is a joint venture owned equally by dow jones, the deutsche borse and the swiss exchange. stoxx develops, maintains, distributes and markets the dow jones stoxx indices. dj/iac online ventures, llc ( dj/iac online ventures ). dj/iac online ventures is a 50/50 joint venture with iac/interactivecorp ( iac ). this joint venture is expected to launch a community-driven, personal finance website in the second half of calendar 2008. new york post the new york post (the post ) is a mass circulation, metropolitan morning newspaper published seven days a week and distributed in new york city, baltimore, boston, florida and california. for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2008, the newspaper had average weekday circulation of approximately 680,000. the company prints the post in a printing facility in the bronx, new york and uses third party printers in its other markets in the united states. the company community newspaper group also owns several local newspapers and other publications distributed in the new york metropolitan area. competition general . the newspapers published by the company compete for readership and advertising with local and national newspapers and also compete with television, radio, the internet and other communications media in 18 table of contents their respective locales. competition for newspaper circulation is based on the news and editorial content of the newspaper, cover price and, from time to time, various promotions. the success of the newspapers published by the company in competing with other newspapers and media for advertising depends upon advertisers judgments as to the most effective use of their advertising budgets. competition for advertising among newspapers is based upon circulation levels, readership levels, reader demographics, advertising rates and advertiser results. such judgments are based on factors such as cost, availability of alternative media, circulation and quality of readership demographics. in recent years, the newspaper industry has experienced difficulty increasing circulation volume and revenues. this is due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media formats and sources and shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news from sources other than a newspaper. the company believes that competition from new media formats and sources and shifting consumer preferences will continue to pose challenges within the newspaper industry. dow jones online publications . dow jones online publications compete with other websites that offer continuously updated coverage of business news, as well as licensing of electronic content. unlike wsj.com, competitors do not, for the most part, utilize an online paid subscription model, and most remain free sites. competitors of dow jones online publications include ft.com, new york times digital, thestreet.com, bloomberg, forbes.com, yahoo!finance, cnet, cnn money, msnmoney/cnbc and google finance. dow jones enterprise media . dow jones newswires compete with other global financial newswires, including thomson reuters and bloomberg l.p., as well as many internet-based providers of financial news and information. dow jones newswires maintain a stronger market position in north america than internationally. dow jones indexes competes with the indexes distributed by various organizations, including standard &amp; poor s, the financial times and morgan stanley capital international. factiva competes with various business information service providers, including lexisnexis, thomson reuters, hoover and onesource. factiva also competes with various internet-based information search services, such as google, microsoft and yahoo!. book publishing harpercollins publishers ( harpercollins ) is engaged in english language book publishing on a worldwide basis and is one of the world largest english language book publishers. harpercollins principal businesses are harpercollins publishers llc ( harpercollins u.s. ), headquartered in new york, harpercollins publishers limited, headquartered in london, and the zondervan corporation llc, headquartered in grand rapids, michigan. harpercollins primarily publishes fiction and non-fiction, including religious books, for the general consumer. in the united kingdom, harpercollins publishes some titles for the educational market as well. during fiscal 2008, harpercollins u.s. had 165 titles on the new york times bestseller list, with 14 titles hitting number one, including the dangerous book for boys by conn iggulden and hal iggulden, deceptively delicious by jessica seinfeld, my grandfather son by clarence thomas, the reagan diaries by ronald reagan, the perfect wife by victoria alexander, next by michael crichton, read all about it! by laura bush and jenna bush, warriors: power of three #2: dark river by erin hunter, fancy nancy by jane o connor, the night before christmas by clement c. moore, ana story by jenna bush, fancy nancy and the posh puppy by jane o connor, bad dog, marley! by john grogan, and the wizard by jack prelutsky. competition . the book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market and has been affected by consolidation trends. this market continues to change in response to technological innovations and other factors. recent years have brought a number of significant mergers among leading book publishers. there have also been a number of mergers completed in the distribution channel. harpercollins must compete with other publishers, such as random house, penguin group, simon &amp; schuster and hachette livre, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities. although harpercollins currently has strong positions in each of its markets, further consolidation in the book publishing industry could place it at a competitive disadvantage with respect to scale and resources. 19 table of contents other nds the company owns approximately 72% of the equity and approximately 96% of the voting power of nds american depositary shares, which each represent one nds series a ordinary share, par value $0.01 per share, and which are quoted on the nasdaq stock market under the symbol nnds. nds supplies open end-to-end digital technology and services to digital pay television platform operators and content providers. nds technologies include conditional access and microprocessor security, broadcast and broadband stream management, set-top box and residential gateway middleware, electronic program guides, dvr technologies and interactive infrastructure and applications. nds provides technologies and services supporting standard definition and hd televisions and a variety of industry, internet and internet protocol standards, as well as technology for mobile devices. nds software systems, consultancy and systems integration services are focused on providing platform operators and content providers with technology to help them profit from the secure distribution of digital information and entertainment to consumer devices that incorporate various technologies supplied by nds. for more information on nds, please see its reports filed with the sec. in june 2008, the company announced that it and two newly incorporated companies formed by funds advised by permira advisers llp ( the permira newcos ) proposed a transaction to an independent committee of the nds board of directors, which would result in nds ceasing to be a public company, and the permira newcos and the company owning 51% and 49% of nds outstanding equity, respectively. on august 5, 2008, nds announced that the independent committee reached an agreement in principle with the company and the permira newcos on a price at which they would acquire all the issued and outstanding nds series a ordinary shares, including those represented by american depositary shares traded on the nasdaq stock exchange, for per share consideration of $63 in cash. as part of this transaction, approximately 68% of the nds series b ordinary shares held by news corporation would be cancelled in exchange for $63 per share in a mix of approximately $1.5 billion in cash and a $242 million note. the transaction is subject to negotiation and execution of final legal documentation, and is also conditioned upon approval by the holders of nds series a ordinary shares, court approval, the receipt of certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. there can be no assurance that the parties will enter into final legal documentation or that any transaction will be consummated. fox interactive media fox interactive media, inc. ( fim ) operates the majority of the company internet businesses, including myspace.com, foxsports.com, scout.com, ign.com, rottentomatoes.com, askmen.com, photobucket.com and other company web properties. in june 2008, the fim network of websites had approximately 186 million unique visitors worldwide and approximately 96 million unique visitors in the united states and, as of june 2008, was the largest network of users on the internet in the united states according to comscore media metrix (based on monthly page views). the fim properties create original entertainment, news and information content and leverage the company current and archived video assets. fim derives revenue principally from the sale of internet advertising and sponsorships, as well as from subscription services and e-commerce, including the digital sale of video games, television programming and other entertainment products. fim has a search technology and services agreement through 2010 with google inc. ( google ), pursuant to which google provides search and keyword targeted advertising on an exclusive basis for a majority of fim web properties domestically and internationally. the fox interactive media audience network is the first online advertising network and technology services provider specializing in advanced targeting for fim websites and third-party clients. 20 table of contents myspace.com is the leading social networking site on the internet, with approximately 73 million unique users and 41 billion page views in the united states in june 2008 according to comscore media metrix. myspace.com allows users, such as individuals, bands, comedians and filmmakers, to create and customize content-rich internet profile pages, share user-generated video, participate in user groups and communicate with each other using various technologies, including instant messaging. in april 2008, myspace, sony bmg music entertainment, universal music group and warner music group formed myspace music, llc ( myspace music ), which will combine the myspace music community with comprehensive catalogues of music content to offer music streaming, mp3 digital downloads, concert tickets, ringtones and other features. myspace music is expected to launch in the united states in the second half of calendar 2008. myspace provides localized experiences in 28 territories internationally, offering local content to users in those territories while maintaining global connectivity to myspace.com. in addition, myspace launched myspace latino (http://latino.myspace.com), a bilingual latino experience focused on the interests of hispanics online. myspacetv announced video-focused content partnerships with a variety of content providers, and myspace also has an international television syndication agreement with shinereveille intl. for the distribution of myspace original web-based series formats. myspace launched a number of new features, services and initiatives during fiscal 2008, including: the myspace developer platform, which gives software developers around the world the ability to build tools and applications that integrate into myspace; myspace celebrity, a global content channel focused on entertainment culture and related news, blogs and videos; the myspace data availability initiative, providing users the ability to use public portions of their myspace profiles and information to engage with participating websites of their choice throughout the internet; and myspace karaoke. fim ign network of video game, lifestyle and entertainment-related internet properties represent many of the top web properties in their respective categories across the internet. ign games sites (ign.com, gamespy, fileplanet, teamxbox and others) are the number one gaming information network on the internet with nearly 14 million unique users in the united states in june 2008 according to comscore media metrix. in addition, ign direct2drive digital distribution site recently surpassed its one millionth game sold and ign gamespy technology group provides technology for online game play in video games. ign also owns and operates one of the most popular movie review websites on the internet, rottentomatoes.com, and one of the leading men lifestyle websites, askmen.com. ign properties are also expanding internationally. fox sports interactive, which includes foxsports.com, fox sports mobile, scout media and whatifsports.com, is a leader in digital sports programming, offering sports fans a comprehensive mix of news, exclusive analysis, fantasy games and one of the internet largest collections of online sports video. foxsports.com, fox sports interactive flagship site, had over 15 million unique users and 381 million page views in the united states during june 2008 according to comscore media metrix. fox sports interactive produces more than four hours per day of original video specifically for the internet, which is distributed on foxsports.com, within msn video and on millions of mobile devices in the united states. foxsports.com video content ranges from event-based programming, such as live webcasts from the bcs championship game, mlb world series and the nfl playoffs to studio shows, which feature both fox sports television talent and the foxsports.com leading editorial voices. photobucket.com, inc., acquired by fim in july 2007, operates one of the internet most popular sites, linking billions of personal photos, graphics, slideshows and videos daily to hundreds of thousands of websites worldwide. in june 2008, photobucket had over 24 million unique users and 1.3 billion page views in the united states according to comscore media metrix. 21 table of contents competition . fim business and the internet generally are highly competitive. fim properties compete with other internet sites for advertisers, users and traffic. fim develops new tools and features to remain competitive in the web 2.0 world. these new tools and features are key competitive factors in keeping users engaged with fim properties. news outdoor news outdoor group ( news outdoor ) operates outdoor advertising companies. news outdoor owns an approximately 73% interest in media support services limited ( mss ), the largest outdoor advertising company in russia. in certain limited circumstances, the minority stockholders of mss have the right to sell, and news outdoor has the right to purchase, the minority interests at fair market value. news outdoor also owns or has interests in outdoor advertising companies in poland, romania, the czech republic, ukraine, bulgaria, israel and southeast asia. the company has announced that it intends to explore strategic options for news outdoor in connection with news outdoor continued development plans. the strategic options include, but are not limited to, exploring the opportunity to expand news outdoor existing shareholder group through new strategic and private equity partners. no agreement has yet been entered into with respect to any transaction. other operations the company has a controlling interest in jamba, a joint venture between the company and verisign, inc. jamba (known as jamster in the united states, canada, the united kingdom and other english-speaking territories) is a leading international provider of mobile entertainment, offering mobile products directly via mobile phones, including branded content from content providers around the world. such content includes music, mobile games, video and original content made exclusively for use on mobile phones. jamba currently distributes content to mobile operators in over 25 territories around the world. the company owns or has interests in the following free-to-air, general entertainment television stations: btv in bulgaria; tv puls in poland; lnt and tv5 in latvia; fox televizija in serbia; and fox tv in turkey. the company has also entered into an agreement to acquire an interest in a television stations in israel (channel 10), pending regulatory approval. in addition, the company owns interests in nashe radio and best fm, both russian radio stations. news digital media is the company australian online division. in addition to maintaining the company australian websites, news digital media is responsible for online advertising and transactions in australia. news digital media sites include careerone.com.au, carsguide.com.au, news.com.au, moshtix.com.au and truelocal.com.au. the company has a 58% interest in realestate.com.au limited, a company listed on the australian stock exchange, which provides online real estate advertising on its 21 websites which it operates in ten countries throughout the world. equity interests bskyb the company holds an approximate 39% interest in bskyb. bskyb ordinary shares are listed on the london stock exchange and its american depositary shares, each representing four bskyb ordinary shares, are listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), in each case under the symbol bsy. bskyb is the leading pay television broadcast service in the united kingdom and ireland, as well as broadband and telephony services. bskyb acquires programming to broadcast on its own channels and also supplies certain of those channels to 22 table of contents cable operators for retransmission by the cable operators to their subscribers in the united kingdom and ireland. bskyb also retails channels (both its own and those of third parties) to dth subscribers and to certain of its own channels to a limited number of dsl subscribers. for more information on bskyb, please see its reports filed with the sec. foxtel the company, telstra corporation limited, an australian telecommunications company, and consolidated media holdings, an australian media and entertainment company, own and operate foxtel, a cable and satellite television service in australia with 25%, 50% and 25% interests, respectively. at june 30, 2008, foxtel had approximately 1.5 million subscribers (including subscribers to optus, an australian telecommunications company). at june 30, 2008, 100% of the foxtel managed subscriber base was connected to foxtel digital service, which delivers over 100 channels on cable and satellite. other investments skynz. the company owns an approximate 44% interest in sky network television limited ( skynz ), a land-linked uhf network and digital dbs service in new zealand. hulu . the company has a 45% equity interest in hulu, llc ( hulu ), which operates a website and an online video distribution network, including video content from fox, nbc universal and many other third party content licensors. hulu content library is also distributed by partners such as aol, msn, myspace, yahoo! and comcast. premiere . the company owns an approximate 25% equity interest in premiere ag, the leading german pay television operator. government regulation general various aspects of the company activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. the company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations. the introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the company products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the interests of the company. filmed entertainment united states. ffe is subject to the provisions of so-called trade practice laws in effect in 25 states relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. these laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain instances, also prohibit payment of advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by exhibitors. further, pursuant to various consent judgments, ffe and certain other motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on their trade practices in the united states, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis and, in some cases, a prohibition against the ownership of theaters. other international regulation. in countries outside of the united states, there are a variety of existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations which may affect the ability of ffe to distribute and/or license its motion picture and television 23 table of contents products to cinema, television or in-home media, including copyright laws and regulations which may or may not be adequate to protect its interests, cinema screen quotas, television quotas, contract term limitations, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of u.s. products. the ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements, including the world trade organization general agreement on tariffs and trade and general agreement on trade and services; however, these agreements have limited application with respect to preventing the denial of market access to audio-visual products originating outside the european union. television united states. in general, the television broadcast industry in the united states is highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc regulates television broadcasting, and certain aspects of the operations of cable, satellite and other electronic media that compete with broadcasting, pursuant to the communications act of 1934, as amended (the communications act ). the communications act permits the operation of television broadcast stations only in accordance with a license issued by the fcc upon a finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. the fcc grants television broadcast station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms. under the communications act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum permitted term of eight years. generally, the fcc renews broadcast licenses upon finding that: (i) the television station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. after considering these factors, the fcc may grant the license renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted, or hold an evidentiary hearing. fox television stations has pending renewal applications for a number of its television station licenses. seven of the pending applications have been opposed by third parties. on june 13, 2007 and may 15, 2008, fox television stations entered into agreements with the fcc that preclude it from objecting, on the grounds that such action is barred by certain statutes of limitations, to fcc or other governmental action relating to (i) petitions to deny or complaints that have been filed against several owned and operated stations relating to programming that is alleged to violate the prohibition against indecent broadcasts, or (ii) inquiries from the fcc regarding compliance with its sponsorship identification rules. for information on the television stations owned and operated by the company, see fox television stations above. in february 1998, the fcc adopted a final table of digital channel allotments and rules for the implementation of digital television ( dtv ) service (including hd television) in the united states. the digital table of allotments provides each existing full power television station licensee or permittee, including the 27 stations currently owned and operated by fox television stations, with a second broadcast channel in order to facilitate a transition from analog to digital transmission, conditioned upon the surrender of one of the channels at the end of the dtv transition period. by law, all full power television stations must cease transmission of analog signals by february 17, 2009. the law sets aside $1.5 billion in subsidies to help consumers obtain converter boxes that will allow analog television sets to receive digital broadcasts. all of the stations owned and operated by fox television stations have launched digital facilities. under fcc rules, television stations may use their second channel to broadcast either one stream of high definition digital programming or to multicast several streams of standard definition digital programming or a mixture of both. broadcasters may also deliver data over these channels, provided that the supplemental services do not derogate the mandated, free-to-air program service. fox television stations is currently formulating plans for use of its digital channels. it is difficult to assess the impact of cessation of analog broadcasting and how the conversion to digital television will affect fox television stations business. 24 table of contents on june 2, 2003, the fcc concluded the 2002 biennial review of its broadcast ownership regulations required by the 1996 telecom act by amending its rules governing the ownership of television and radio stations and by replacing its newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership ban and the radio/television cross-ownership restriction with a new set of cross-media ownership limits (the june 2003 order ). in the consolidated appropriations act of 2004, congress increased the national television station ownership cap to permit an entity to have an attributable ownership interest in an unlimited number of television stations nationally, so long as the audience reach of those stations does not exceed, in the aggregate and after the application of the uhf discount, 39% of u.s. television households. several parties appealed the june 2003 order. the united states court of appeals for the third circuit (the third circuit ) stayed the effectiveness of the new rules and, on june 24, 2004, remanded the fcc june 2003 order for additional justification or modification of the revisions the fcc had made to its ownership regulations. on february 4, 2008, the fcc issued an order that concluded its 2006 review of its broadcast ownership regulations and addressed the issues raised by the third circuit remand (the february 2008 order ). the commission decided there should be no changes to its rules relating to the ownership of multiple television stations in the same market. those rules (i) permit the ownership of two television stations with overlapping coverage areas if the stations are in separate dmas; and (ii) permit the ownership of two stations in the same dma if their grade b coverage areas do not overlap or if eight independently owned full power television stations will remain in the dma after the stations that had been independently owned become commonly owned, and one of the merged stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. on the question of common ownership of a broadcast station and a newspaper in the same market, the commission modified its rules to create a presumption that such combinations are in the public interest in the top 20 dmas provided (i) only one television station and one newspaper are involved; (ii) at least eight major media voices will remain in the dma after the combination; and (iii) the television station is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. any other newspaper/broadcast combination is presumed to be inconsistent with the public interest. the presumption may be overcome if certain criteria enumerated by the fcc are satisfied. the february 2008 order has been appealed by several parties, including the company, and the appeal is currently pending in the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the court action on this appeal or its effect on the company. fox television stations is in compliance with the rules governing ownership of multiple stations in the same market and with the national station ownership cap established by congress. fox television stations retains an attributable interest in the post and two television stations in the new york dma. on october 6, 2006, the fcc reaffirmed the company permanent waiver of the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, which allows the common ownership of the post and wnyw(tv), and granted a two-year temporary waiver of the rule to continue to allow the common ownership of the post and wwor-tv (the october 2006 order ). the wwor-tv/ post combination is not entitled to a positive presumption under the fcc revised newspaper cross-ownership rule because of the company ownership of a second television station in the new york dma. the company is seeking a permanent waiver of the prohibition from the fcc on the grounds that it satisfies the criteria to overcome the negative presumption contained in the new rule. parties opposed to the october 2006 order filed a petition for reconsideration with the agency and an appeal to the d.c. circuit court of appeals, both of which are pending. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the fcc or the court action on these filings or their effect on the company. fcc regulations implementing the cable television consumer protection and competition act of 1992 (the 1992 cable act ) require each television broadcaster to elect, at three-year intervals, either to (i) require carriage of its signal by cable systems in the station market ( must carry ) or (ii) negotiate the terms on which that broadcast station would permit transmission of its signal by the cable systems within its market ( retransmission consent ). generally, the company has elected retransmission consent for the stations owned and operated by fox television stations. on november 30, 2007, the fcc resolved issues relating to carriage requirements for digital broadcast television signals on cable systems by concluding that cable operators are required to ensure that all must carry television signals remain viewable in homes with only analog equipment. 25 table of contents in addition, the fcc reaffirmed that must carry stations that multicast several streams of digital programming are entitled to the carriage by cable systems of only a single primary programming stream. the digital signals of stations that elect retransmission consent may be carried in any manner consistent with the agreement between the cable system and the broadcaster. the satellite home viewer improvement act of 1999 required satellite carriers, as of january 1, 2002, to carry upon request all television stations located in markets in which the satellite carrier retransmits at least one local station pursuant to the copyright license provided in the statute ( carry one, carry all ). fcc regulations implementing this statutory provision require affected stations to elect either mandatory carriage at the same three year intervals applicable to cable must carry or negotiate carriage terms with the satellite operators. satellite carriers are expected to seamlessly replace stations analog signals with digital signals during the dtv transition period. in march 2008, the fcc decided that its carry one, carry all policy also applies to local stations hd dtv signals; however, satellite carriers may phase in the carriage of all hd dtv signals in a dma over a four year period beginning in february 2010. legislation enacted in 1990 limits the amount of commercial matter that may be broadcast during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. in addition, under fcc license renewal processing guidelines, television stations are generally required to broadcast a minimum of three hours per week of programming, which, among other requirements, must serve, as a significant purpose, the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and under. a television station found not to have complied with the programming requirements or commercial limitations could face sanctions, including monetary fines and the possible non-renewal of its license. fcc rules prohibit the broadcast by television and radio stations of indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. beginning in march 2004, the fcc implemented a new policy regarding this prohibition and generally stepped up its enforcement of indecency violations. under the new policy, the single use of certain forbidden expletives, or variations of those expletives, were deemed indecent and profane. the fcc also warned broadcasters that serious multiple violations of the indecency prohibition could lead to license revocation proceedings, and that fines could be imposed for each incident in a single broadcast. under the new fcc policy, both complaints about indecency and fcc enforcement actions have increased, and several complaints alleging the broadcast of alleged indecent or profane material by fox television stations are pending at the fcc. on march 15, 2006, the fcc notified fox television stations of apparent liability for a $27,500 forfeiture relating to the broadcast of the movie the pursuit of d.b. cooper by its owned and operated station ktvi(tv) in st. louis, missouri (the march 15 order ). fox television stations contested the forfeitures. the statute of limitations for issuance of a final forfeiture order has run without additional action by the fcc. in the march 15 order, the fcc also determined that the 2002 and 2003 billboard music awards programs, both live broadcasts on fox, violated the prohibitions against indecent and profane broadcasts because they contained isolated uses of the forbidden expletives. however, since these broadcasts preceded the fcc march 2004 policy, no forfeiture or other penalty was imposed. nonetheless, in april 2006, fox television stations appealed the march 15 order to the second circuit court of appeals (the second circuit ). on june 4, 2007 the second circuit granted fox appeal, vacating the fcc decision in the billboard music awards cases as well as the fcc new policy on fleeting expletives in its entirety on the grounds that both were arbitrary and capricious. the court remanded the case to the fcc for further proceedings consistent with the court opinion. the united states sought review by the u.s. supreme court, which was granted. the supreme court case is likely to be argued in late calendar 2008. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the supreme court action on this case or its effect on the company. on february 22, 2008, the fcc issued an order imposing forfeitures of $7,000 each on 13 fox affiliates, including five stations owned and operated by the company, on the grounds that an april 7, 2003 episode of the program married by america violated the prohibition against indecent broadcasts. on april 4, 2008, the united states commenced an action in federal district court in the district of columbia against the five company-owned stations to collect the forfeitures imposed by the fcc. the company moved to dismiss the suit on several grounds, including that the fcc forfeiture order is unconstitutional. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of this case or its effect on the company. 26 table of contents on june 15, 2006, the broadcast decency enforcement act was signed into law. this law raises the maximum amount the fcc can impose for a violation of the prohibition against indecent and profane broadcasts from $32,500 to $325,000 per incident. some members of congress have supported extending the indecency rules applicable to free-to-air broadcasters to cable and satellite programming, and/or requiring mvpds to provide their subscribers with the option of purchasing programming on a channel by channel (or &agrave; la carte) basis or to provide them with a family-friendly program tier without obligating the subscriber to purchase any other programming channels or tiers. modifications to the company programming to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on the competitive position of fox television stations and fox. if indecency regulation is extended to cable and satellite programming, and such extension was found to be constitutional, some of the company cable programming services could be subject to additional regulation that might affect subscription and viewership levels. regulation requiring &agrave; la carte or family-friendly program options might decrease the distribution of the company cable services and increase their marketing expenses, which could affect results of operations. the fcc continues to enforce strictly its regulations concerning political advertising, children television, environmental concerns, equal employment opportunity, technical operating matters and antenna tower maintenance. fcc rules require the closed captioning of almost all broadcast and cable programming. although not required by fcc regulation, the company has committed to provide program ratings information for its broadcast network programming for use in conjunction with v chip technology, a technology that blocks the display of television programming based on its rating. fcc regulations governing network affiliation agreements mandate that television broadcast station licensees retain the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance. violation of fcc regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, periodic reporting conditions, short-term license renewals and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of license. asia . star broadcasts television programming over a footprint covering approximately 53 countries. government regulation of direct reception and redistribution via cable or other means of satellite television signals, where it is addressed at all, is treated differently throughout star footprint. at one extreme are absolute bans on private ownership of satellite receiving equipment. some countries, however, have adopted a less restrictive approach, opting to allow ownership of satellite receiving equipment by certain institutions and individuals but allowing them to receive only authorized broadcasts. at the opposite end of the spectrum are countries where private satellite dish ownership is allowed and laws and regulations have been adopted which support popular access to satellite services through local cable redistribution. most television services within star footprint, whether free-to-air or pay television, are also subject to licensing requirements, although these requirements are imposed on the local broadcast operators who collect the subscription fees rather than on program suppliers, such as star, which license local broadcast operators to receive their programming. in addition, most countries in star footprint control the content offered by local broadcast operators through censorship requirements to which program suppliers, such as star, are subject. certain countries also impose obligations to carry government-operated or terrestrial channels or require a minimum percentage of local content. other countries require local broadcast operators to obtain government approval to retransmit foreign programming. most countries within star footprint, including in star primary markets (india, indonesia and greater china), have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. india. in india, private satellite dish ownership, including dth, is allowed. television viewers receive broadcast television signals primarily through terrestrial and cable delivery and in more recent years, dth delivery. 27 table of contents all cable television operators are required to carry certain government-operated channels. retransmissions of foreign satellite channels, such as star channels in india, are permitted, subject to licensing requirements and compliance with local applicable laws, including censorship codes. the indian government also places certain restrictions on advertising and requires that certain media, whether produced in india or abroad, must be certified by the central board of film certification prior to exhibition in india. recently the indian government also amended its advertising code to restrict the telecast of advertisement of certain products, especially those relating to the tobacco &amp; liquor industry. limits are imposed by the indian government on the increase in the year-on-year prices payable by cable operators to broadcasters for certain channels, including certain star channels. in addition, maximum retail prices have been mandated for different categories of cities. there is no tariff regulation for dth; however, broadcasters are required to offer their channels to dth platforms at 50% of the rates charged to analogue cable operators. broadcasters such as star are required to publish basic distribution terms specifying the bouquet and &agrave; la carte rates within a price matrix formula to enable the distributors to take channels at their discretion. broadcasters are also required to provide their channels on non-discriminatory terms to all distributors. in certain metropolitan areas, viewers are required to buy or rent a set-top-box from cable operators to access pay television channels, which allows viewers to choose the pay television channels they wish to subscribe to on an &agrave; la carte basis, rather than on a bundled basis. further, cable operators are required to provide a pay television channel at a capped retail price, of which the broadcasters share is restricted to 45%. broadcasters and cable operators must execute standard format agreements regarding the provision of television signals in certain metropolitan areas. china. in mainland china, private satellite dish ownership is prohibited except with special approval for hotels, government and foreign institutions which can receive only authorized broadcasts. local cable and free-to-air terrestrial operators are required to broadcast a minimum percentage of local content and retransmission of foreign satellite channels by local operators is prohibited except with special approval. taiwan. in taiwan, private satellite dish ownership is allowed. the maximum subscription fee chargeable by cable television operators is set by both the national and local governments. cable television operators offer analog basic channels in a single package and digital premium channels in packages or on an &agrave; la carte basis as a buy through to their basic analog service. all channels offered in taiwan must be licensed. retransmission of foreign satellite programming by local cable operators is permitted, but local cable operators are also required to carry terrestrial channels and broadcast a minimum percentage of local content. additional categories of regulation of actual or potential significance to star within its footprint are restrictions on foreign investment in platform, television programming, production or channel businesses, uplink-downlink licensing regulations, content protection under copyright or communications law, limitations on exclusive arrangements for channel distribution and non-discrimination requirements for supply or carriage of programming. cable network programming fcc regulations adopted pursuant to the 1992 cable act (the program access rules ) prevent a cable operator that has an attributable interest (including voting or non-voting stock ownership of 5% or more or limited partnership equity interests of 5% or more) in a programming vendor from exercising undue or improper influence over the vendor in its dealings with competitors to cable. the program access rules also prohibit a cable programmer in which a cable operator has an attributable interest from entering into exclusive contracts with any cable operator or from discriminating among competing mvpds in the price, terms and conditions of sale or delivery of programming. as a result of the closing in february 2008 of the transactions contemplated by the share exchange agreement, cable networks operated by the company are no longer subject to the program access rules. 28 table of contents program access conditions in connection with its approval of the transfer of licenses controlled by directv to the company, the fcc imposed the following conditions relating to the carriage and availability of its broadcast and cable programming services: (i) extended the requirements of the program access rules to directv; (ii) extended the non-discrimination requirements of the program access rules to any television station owned and operated or represented by the company with respect to negotiations or agreements for retransmission consent and required the company to negotiate in good faith over retransmission consent rights for as long as the program access rules are in effect; (iii) required the company to enter into commercial arbitration if negotiations with an mvpd over retransmission consent for its television stations signals and/or carriage of the regional sports networks it owns, controls or manages reach an impasse; and (iv) prohibited the company from unduly or improperly influencing the decision of any affiliated program rights holder (a program rights holder that holds an attributable interest in the company or in which the company holds an attributable interest) to sell programming to an unaffiliated mvpd, or the prices, terms and conditions of such a sale. as a result of the closing in february 2008 of the transactions contemplated by the share exchange agreement, all these conditions were terminated except for the commercial arbitration condition, which by its terms expires on january 14, 2010. the company has asked the fcc for immediate termination of the arbitration condition on the grounds it is no longer necessary in light of the company divestiture of its interest in directv. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of fcc action on this request. internet the children online privacy protection act of 1998 ( coppa ) prohibits websites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. the controlling the assault of non-solicited pornography and marketing act of 2003 ( can-spam ) regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or spam. online services provided by the company may be subject to coppa and can-spam requirements. the federal government and some state governments have introduced or considered legislation relating to internet usage generally, including measures relating to privacy and data security, as well as specific legislation aimed at social networking sites, such as myspace.com. some foreign governments are raising similar safety, security and privacy concerns. because most of such activity is in its early stages, it is unclear how any government action would affect the company business conducted on the internet. the company monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments. the company is also working closely with other members of the industry to engage in self-regulation to address government concerns wherever possible. raw materials as a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. in order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the company paper purchasing is done on a centralized, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. the company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate. intellectual property the company intellectual property assets include: copyrights in motion pictures, television programming, newspapers, books, magazines, websites and technologies; trademarks in names, logos and characters; domain names; patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds. the company derives value from these assets through the theatrical release of films and the production, distribution and/or licensing of its films and television programming to 29 table of contents domestic and international television and cable networks, pay television services, pay-per-view, video-on-demand services and direct-to-home satellite services, operation of websites, and through the sale of products, such as dvds, books, newspapers and magazines, among others. the company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property in the united states and other key foreign territories. to protect these assets, the company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and internet/domain name statutes and laws and contract provisions. however, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the company intellectual property. the company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives, deploying digital rights management technologies, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property. third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the company intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources which could have an adverse effect on the company operations. moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. therefore, the company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement. item 1a. risk factors prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set forth below before making an investment in the company securities. a decline in advertising expenditures could cause the company revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on or in its television stations, broadcast and cable networks, newspapers and inserts, websites and dbs services. expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. a decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. demand for the company products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. for example, ratings points for the company television stations, broadcast and cable networks and circulation levels for the company newspapers are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates, and with respect to the company television stations and broadcast and television networks, when determining the affiliate rates received by the company. in addition, newer technologies, including new video formats, streaming and downloading capabilities via the internet, video-on-demand, personal video recorders and other devices and technologies are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences. some of these devices and technologies allow users to view television or motion pictures from a remote location or on a time-delayed basis and provide users the ability to fast-forward, rewind, pause and skip programming. these technological developments are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences and may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the company offerings to viewers, advertisers and/or distributors. a decrease in advertising expenditures or reduced demand for the company offerings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the company businesses. 30 table of contents acceptance of the company film and television programming by the public is difficult to predict, which could lead to fluctuations in revenues. feature film and television production and distribution are speculative businesses since the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a feature film or television series depend primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. the commercial success of a feature film or television series also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing films and television series released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of a growing number of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. further, the theatrical success of a feature film and the audience ratings for a television series are generally key factors in generating revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and premium pay television, with respect to feature films, and syndication, with respect to television series. the loss of carriage agreements could cause the company revenue and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with third party owned television stations, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to the company. the loss of a significant number of these affiliation arrangements could reduce the distribution of fox and mynetworktv and adversely affect the company ability to sell national advertising time. similarly, the company cable networks maintain affiliation and carriage arrangements that enable them to reach a large percentage of cable and direct broadcast satellite households across the united states. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the company cable networks, which may adversely affect those networks revenues from subscriber fees and their ability to sell national and local advertising time. the inability to renew sports programming rights could cause the company advertising revenue to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the sports rights contracts between the company, on the one hand, and various professional sports leagues and teams, on the other, have varying duration and renewal terms. as these contracts expire, renewals on favorable terms may be sought; however, third parties may outbid the current rights holders for the rights contracts. in addition, professional sports leagues or teams may create their own networks or the renewal costs could substantially exceed the original contract cost. the loss of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by the company and its affiliates, as it relates to fox, and could adversely affect the company advertising and affiliate revenues. upon renewal, the company results could be adversely affected if escalations in sports programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in advertising rates and, in the case of cable networks, subscriber fees. technological developments may increase the threat of content piracy and signal theft and limit the company ability to protect its intellectual property rights. the company seeks to limit the threat of content piracy and dbs programming signal theft; however, policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken by the company may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties. developments in technology, including digital copying, file compressing and the growing penetration of high-bandwidth internet connections, increase the threat of content piracy by making it easier to duplicate and widely distribute pirated material. in addition, developments in software or devices that circumvent encryption technology increase the threat of unauthorized use and distribution of dbs programming signals. the company has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy and signal theft, both individually and, in some instances, together with industry associations. there can be no assurance that the 31 table of contents company efforts to enforce its rights and protect its products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy or signal theft. content piracy and signal theft present a threat to the company revenues from products and services, including, but not limited to, films, television shows, books and dbs programming. labor disputes may have an adverse effect on the company business. in a variety of the company businesses, the company and its partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements, including employees of the company film and television studio operations and newspapers. if the company or its partners are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, certain of which have or are expiring within the next year or so, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute could have an adverse effect on the company business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins. changes in u.s. or foreign communications laws and other regulations may have an adverse effect on the company business. in general, the television broadcasting and multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the united states are highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc generally regulates, among other things, the ownership of media, broadcast and multichannel video programming and technical operations of broadcast and satellite licensees. further, the united states congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters, including technological changes, which could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of the company u.s. media properties. similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which the company, or entities in which the company has an interest, operate could adversely affect its business and results of operations. provisions in the company corporate documents, delaware law and the ownership of the company class b common stock by certain principal stockholders could delay or prevent a change of control of news corporation, even if that change would be beneficial to the company stockholders. the existence of some provisions in the company corporate documents could delay or prevent a change of control of news corporation, even if that change would be beneficial to the company stockholders. the company restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws, contain provisions that may make acquiring control of news corporation difficult, including: provisions relating to the classification, nomination and removal of directors; a provision prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; provisions regulating the ability of the company stockholders to bring matters for action before annual and special meetings of the company stockholders; and the authorization given to the company board of directors (the board ) to issue and set the terms of preferred stock. on april 15, 2008, as a result of the closing of the transactions contemplated under the share exchange agreement, the board approved the elimination of the company classified board structure beginning at the company annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 2008, subject to stockholder approval at that meeting by the company class b common stockholders of an amendment to the company restated certificate of incorporation to allow for the annual election of directors. 32 table of contents further, as a result of mr. k. rupert murdoch ability to appoint certain members of the board of directors of the corporate trustee of the murdoch family trust, which beneficially owns 0.5% of the company class a common stock and 37.2% of its class b common stock, mr. k. rupert murdoch may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the shares beneficially owned by the murdoch family trust. mr. k. rupert murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of those shares. also, mr. k. rupert murdoch beneficially owns an additional 1.1% of the company class a common stock and 1.3% of its class b common stock. thus, mr. k. rupert murdoch may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate 1.7% of the company class a common stock and 38.6% of the company class b common stock. further, if the company completes its previously announced stock repurchase program, the aggregate voting power represented by the shares of the company class b common stock held by mr. k. rupert murdoch and the murdoch family trust would increase to approximately 40.3% of the company aggregate voting power. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 79 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has exposure to several types of market risk: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and stock prices. the company neither holds nor issues financial instruments for trading purposes. the following sections provide quantitative information on the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and stock price risk. it makes use of sensitivity analyses that are inherently limited in estimating actual losses in fair value that can occur from changes in market conditions. foreign currency exchange rates the company conducts operations in four principal currencies: the u.s. dollar, the british pound sterling, the euro and the australian dollar. these currencies operate as the functional currency for the company u.s., european (including the united kingdom) and australian operations, respectively. cash is managed centrally within each of the three regions with net earnings reinvested locally and working capital requirements met from existing liquid funds. to the extent such funds are not sufficient to meet working capital requirements; drawdowns in the appropriate local currency are available from intercompany borrowings. since earnings of the company australian and european (including the united kingdom) operations are expected to be reinvested in those businesses indefinitely, the company does not hedge its investment in the net assets of those foreign operations. at june 30, 2008, the company outstanding financial instruments with foreign currency exchange rate risk exposure had an aggregate fair value of $133 million (including the company non-u.s. dollar-denominated fixed rate debt). the potential increase in the fair values of these instruments resulting from a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately $18 million at june 30, 2008. interest rates the company current financing arrangements and facilities include $13.5 billion of outstanding debt with fixed interest and the new credit agreement, which carries variable interest. fixed and variable rate debts are impacted differently by changes in interest rates. a change in the interest rate or yield of fixed rate debt will only impact the fair market value of such debt, while a change in the interest rate of variable debt will impact interest expense, as well as the amount of cash required to service such debt. as of june 30, 2008, substantially all of the company financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk were denominated in u.s. dollars and had an aggregate fair value of $13.6 billion. the potential change in fair market value for these financial instruments from an adverse 10% change in quoted interest rates across all maturities, often referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve, would be approximately $759 million at june 30, 2008. stock prices the company has common stock investments in several publicly traded companies that are subject to market price volatility. these investments principally represent the company equity affiliates and had an aggregate fair value of approximately $7,748 million as of june 30, 2008. a hypothetical decrease in the market price of these investments of 10% would result in a fair value of approximately $6,973 million. such a hypothetical decrease would result in a before tax decrease in comprehensive income of approximately $14 million, as any changes in fair value of the company equity affiliates are not recognized unless deemed other-than-temporary, as these investments are accounted for under the equity method. in accordance with sfas no. 133, the company has recorded the conversion feature embedded in its exchangeable debentures in other liabilities. at june 30, 2008, the fair value of this conversion feature was $64 million and is sensitive to movements in the share price of one of the company publicly traded equity affiliates. a significant variance in the price of the underlying stock could have a material impact on the operating results of the company. a 10% increase in the price of the underlying shares, holding other factors constant, would increase the fair value of the call option by approximately $17 million. 79 table of contentsrisk factors 29 risk factors in this annual report. the company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the company with the sec. this section should be read together with the consolidated financial statements of news corporation and related notes set forth elsewhere in this annual report. business overview the company is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in the eight segments described below. 2 table of contents filmed entertainment the company engages in the production and acquisition of live-action and animated motion pictures for distribution and licensing in all formats in all entertainment media worldwide, and the production and licensing of television programming worldwide. feature film production and distribution one of the world largest producers and distributors of motion pictures, fox filmed entertainment ( ffe ), produces, acquires and distributes motion pictures throughout the world under a variety of arrangements. during fiscal 2009, ffe placed 25 motion pictures in general release in the united states. those motion pictures were produced and/or distributed by the following units of ffe: twentieth century fox and fox 2000, which produce and acquire motion pictures for mainstream audiences; fox searchlight pictures, which produces and acquires specialized motion pictures; fox atomic, which produced and acquired motion pictures targeting the 17-24 year old demographic audience; and twentieth century fox animation, which produces feature length animated motion pictures. the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by ffe in the united states and international territories in fiscal 2009 included marley &amp; me, taken, x-men origins: wolverine, night at the museum: battle of the smithsonian, slumdog millionaire, the wrestler, the secret life of bees and notorious . ffe has already released or currently plans to release approximately 23 motion pictures in the united states in fiscal 2010, including ice age: dawn of the dinosaurs, avatar, alvin and the chipmunks: the squeakuel, date night, gulliver travels, 500 days of summer, whip it! and amelia. pursuant to an agreement with monarchy enterprises holdings b.v. ( meh ), the parent company of new regency in which the company has a 20% interest, and certain of meh subsidiaries, ffe distributes certain new regency films and all films co-financed by ffe and new regency in all media worldwide, excluding most international territories with respect to television rights. among its fiscal 2010 releases, ffe currently expects to distribute three films either fully financed by new regency or co-financed by ffe and new regency. motion picture companies, such as ffe, typically seek to generate revenues from various distribution channels. ffe derives its worldwide motion picture revenues primarily from four basic sources (set forth in general chronology of exploitation): (i) distribution of motion pictures for theatrical exhibition in the united states and canada and markets outside of the united states and canada ( international markets); (ii) distribution of motion pictures in various home media formats; (iii) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on pay-per-view, video-on-demand and premium pay television programming services; and (iv) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on free television networks, other broadcast program services, independent television stations and basic cable programming services, including certain services which are affiliates of the company. the company does not always have rights in all media of exhibition to all motion pictures that it releases, and does not necessarily distribute a given motion picture in all of the foregoing media in all markets. the company believes that the pre-release marketing of a feature film is an integral part of its motion picture distribution strategy and generally begins marketing efforts three to six months in advance of a film release date in any given territory. the company markets and distributes its films worldwide principally through its own distribution and marketing companies. through twentieth century fox home entertainment, inc., the company distributes motion pictures and other programming produced by units of ffe, its affiliates and other producers in the united states, canada and international markets in all home media formats, including the sale and rental of dvds. in fiscal 2009, the domestic home entertainment division released or re-released approximately 1,017 produced and acquired titles, including 29 new ffe film releases, approximately 712 catalog titles and approximately 276 television and non-theatrical titles. in international markets, the company distributed, produced and acquired titles both directly and through foreign distribution channels, with approximately 851 releases in fiscal 2009, including approximately 29 new ffe film releases, approximately 660 catalog titles and approximately 162 television and 3 table of contents non-theatrical releases. in fiscal 2009, the company continued its worldwide home video distribution arrangement with metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ), releasing approximately 1,358 and 774 mgm home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs domestically and internationally, respectively, as well as its domestic home video distribution arrangement with lions gate, releasing approximately 1,777 lions gate home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs. during fiscal 2009, the domestic home entertainment division released 141 blu-ray high definition ( hd ) disc format ( blu-ray ) titles, including 25 new ffe film releases and 106 catalog titles and 10 television and non-theatrical releases. in international markets, the company released 110 blu-ray titles, including 16 new ffe film releases and 94 catalog titles. the company also distributed 51 blu-ray titles (9 new releases and 42 catalog titles) from mgm domestically and 32 titles (two new releases and 30 catalog titles) internationally, and 72 blu-ray titles from lions gate domestically. units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs in the united states, canada and international markets to various third party and certain affiliated subscription pay television, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services. the license agreements reflecting the subscription pay television arrangements generally provide for a specified number of exhibitions of the program during a fixed term in exchange for a license fee that is based on a variety of factors, including the box office performance of each program and the number of subscribers to the service or system. among third party license agreements that units of ffe have in place in the united states for television exhibition of their motion pictures are exclusive subscription pay television license agreements with home box office ( hbo ), providing for the licensing of films initially released for theatrical exhibition through 2015, as well as arrangements with starz encore group. the license agreements reflecting the pay-per-view and video-on-demand services arrangements generally provide for a license fee based on a percentage of the licensee gross receipts from the exhibition of the program, and in some cases, a guaranteed minimum fee. in addition, these agreements generally provide for a minimum number of scheduled pay-per-view exhibitions and a minimum video-on-demand exhibition period during a fixed term. units of ffe also license motion pictures in the united states to direct broadcast satellite ( dbs ) pay-per-view services operated by echostar communications corporation, as well as to pay-per-view and video-on-demand services operated by directv and in demand l.l.c. in addition, units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs to third parties, including apple and amazon, for electronic sell-through over the internet, enabling consumers in the united states to acquire the right to retain permanently such programs. in international markets, units of ffe license motion pictures and other programming to leading third party pay television, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services, as well as to pay television and video-on-demand services operated by various affiliated entities. competition. motion picture production and distribution are highly competitive businesses. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. the number of motion pictures released by the company competitors, particularly the other major film studios, in any given period may create an oversupply of product in the market, which may reduce the company shares of gross box office admissions and may make it more difficult for the company motion pictures to succeed. the commercial success of the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by the company is affected substantially by the public unpredictable response to them. the competitive risks affecting the company home entertainment business include the number of home entertainment titles released by the company competitors that may create an oversupply of product in the market, competition among home media formats, such as dvds, and other methods of distribution, such as video-on-demand services. the company faces ongoing risks associated with controlling unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs. for a further discussion of issues relating to unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs, see intellectual property. television programming, production and distribution twentieth century fox television ( tcftv ) . during fiscal 2009, tcftv produced television programs for the fox broadcasting company ( fox ), abc television network ( abc ), cbs broadcasting, inc. 4 table of contents ( cbs ), nbc television network ( nbc ), comedy partners ( comedy central ) and f/x networks ( fx ). tcftv currently produces, or has orders to produce, episodes of the following television series: 24 , american dad, bones , the cleveland show , dollhouse , family guy , glee, king of the hill , lie to me, the simpsons, sit down, shut up (a co-production with adelaide productions) and sons of tucson for fox; better off ted, modern family and the deep end for abc; how i met your mother for cbs; sons of anarchy for fx; futurama for comedy central; and neighbors from hell for superstation inc. ( tbs ). generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes for exhibition on the network during the license period. all other distribution rights, including international and off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by tcftv, utilized by other units of the company or sold to third parties. television programs generally are produced under contracts that provide for license fees that may cover only a portion of the anticipated production costs. as these costs have increased in recent years, the resulting deficit between production costs and license fees for domestic first-run programming has also increased. therefore, additional licensing is often critical to the financial success of a series. successful u.s. network television series are, for example, (i) licensed for first-run exhibition in canadian and international markets, (ii) released in dvd box sets, (iii) licensed for off-network exhibition in the united states (including in syndication and to cable programmers), (iv) licensed for further television exhibition in international markets and (v) made available for electronic sell-through and streaming, including individual episodes and full series. typically, a series must be broadcast for at least three to four television seasons for there to be a sufficient number of episodes to offer the series in syndication or to cable and dbs programmers in the united states. the decision of a television network to continue a series through an entire television season or to renew a series for another television season depends largely on the series audience ratings. twentieth television. twentieth television licenses both television programming and feature films for domestic syndication to television stations and basic cable services in the united states. twentieth television distributes a program portfolio that includes the company library of television and film assets, and first-run programming produced by its production companies for sales to local stations, including stations owned and operated by the company, as well as to basic cable networks. first-run programs distributed by twentieth television include the game show are you smarter than a 5 th grader? and the court shows divorce court and judge alex . twentieth television derives revenue from off-network, theatrical and first-run program sales in the form of cash license fees paid by both broadcast and cable licensees, and from the sales of national advertising units retained by twentieth television in its programs. twentieth television licenses such shows as how i met your mother , my name is earl , family guy , american dad, king of the hill, the unit, m*a*s*h, boston legal, bones, malcolm in the middle and the simpsons to cable and broadcast networks. twentieth television also manages and distributes the long running series, cops and america most wanted , and sells national advertising on behalf of other third party syndicators. fox television studios ( ftvs ). ftvs is a program supplier to the major u.s. and international broadcast and cable networks. ftvs is currently producing burn notice and white collar for usa network, saving grace for tnt, mental and the upcoming late-night the wanda sykes show for fox, and kendra and the girls next door for e!. other ftvs international co-productions include persons unknown , co-produced with televisa for nbc, and defying gravity , co-produced with ctv and prosieben for abc. competition. similar to motion picture production and distribution, production and distribution of television programming is extremely competitive. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. in addition, television networks have affiliated production companies from which they are increasingly obtaining their programming, which has reduced the demand for programming from other non-affiliated parties. 5 table of contents motion picture and television library the company motion picture and television library (the fox library ) consists of varying rights to several thousand previously released motion pictures and many well-known television programs. motion pictures in the fox library include many successful and well-known titles, such as the sound of music , mrs. doubtfire , planet of the apes , the die hard series, dr. dolittle , the x-men series, the day after tomorrow , the ice age series, sideways , walk the line , the devil wears prada , little miss sunshine , the night at the museum series, alvin and the chipmunks , slumdog millionaire and taken, as well as seven of the top 30 domestic box office grossing films of all time, which are titanic (together with paramount pictures corporation), star wars , star wars episode i: the phantom menace , star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith , star wars episode ii: attack of the clones , star wars episode vi: return of the jedi and independence day . the fox library contains varying rights to many television series and made-for-television motion pictures. the television programming in the fox library consists of such classic series as the mary tyler moore show , m*a*s*h , hill street blues , doogie howser, m.d. , l.a. law , the wonder years , the practice , ally mcbeal , boston legal, my name is earl, angel , dharma &amp; greg , in living color , the x-files , buffy the vampire slayer and nypd blue , as well as such current programming as the simpsons , bones , king of the hill , 24 , family guy , dollhouse , futurama , better off ted, how i met your mother, sons of anarchy , american dad and lie to me . television the company is engaged in the operation of broadcast television stations, the broadcasting of network programming in the united states and the development, production and broadcasting of television programming in asia. fox television stations fox television stations, inc. ( fox television stations ) owns and operates 27 full power stations, including stations located in nine of the top ten largest designated market areas ( dmas ). fox television stations owns and operates two stations in nine dmas, including new york, los angeles and chicago, the first, second and third largest dmas, respectively. of the 27 full power stations, 17 stations are affiliates of fox ( fox affiliates ). for a description of the programming offered to fox affiliates, see fox broadcasting company. in addition, fox television stations owns and operates ten stations affiliated with mynetworktv, inc. ( mynetworktv ). 6 table of contents the following table lists certain information about each of the television stations owned and operated by fox television stations. unless otherwise noted, all stations are fox affiliates. fox television stations (1) dma/rank station channel type percentage of u.s. television households reached ( 2 ) new york, ny 1 wnyw 5 vhf 6.5 % wwor ( 3 ) 9 vhf los angeles, ca 2 kttv 11 vhf 4.9 % kcop ( 3 ) 13 vhf chicago, il 3 wfld 32 uhf 3.1 % wpwr ( 3 ) 50 uhf philadelphia, pa 4 wtxf 29 uhf 2.6 % dallas, tx 5 kdfw 4 vhf 2.2 % kdfi ( 3 ) 27 uhf boston, ma 7 wfxt 25 uhf 2.1 % atlanta, ga 8 waga 5 vhf 2.1 % washington, dc 9 wttg 5 vhf 2.0 % wdca ( 3 ) 20 uhf houston, tx 10 kriv 26 uhf 1.8 % ktxh ( 3 ) 20 uhf detroit, mi 11 wjbk 2 vhf 1.7 % phoenix, az 12 ksaz 10 vhf 1.6 % kutp ( 3 ) 45 uhf tampa, fl 13 wtvt 13 vhf 1.6 % minneapolis, mn (4 ) 15 kmsp 9 vhf 1.5 % wftc ( 3 ) 29 uhf orlando, fl 19 wofl 35 uhf 1.3 % wrbw ( 3 ) 65 uhf baltimore, md 26 wutb (3 ) 24 uhf 1.0 % memphis, tn 48 whbq 13 vhf 0.6 % austin, tx 49 ktbc 7 vhf 0.6 % gainesville, fl 160 wogx 51 uhf 0.1 % total 37.3 % source: nielsen media research, january 2009 (1) the information presented in the table above is valid as of june 12, 2009, the date of the conversion of fox television stations to all digital broadcasts. for more information on the transition to digital broadcast, see regulation television. (2) vhf television stations transmit on channels 2 through 13 and uhf television stations on channels 14 through 69. uhf television stations in many cases have a weaker signal and therefore do not achieve the same coverage as vhf television stations. to address this disparity, the federal communications commission (the fcc ) applies a discount (the uhf discount ) which attributes only 50% of the television households in a local television market to the audience reach of a uhf television station for purposes of calculating whether that station owner complies with the national station ownership cap imposed by fcc regulations and by statute. in addition, the coverage of two commonly owned stations in the same market is counted only once. the percentages listed are rounded and do not take into account the uhf discount. for more information regarding the fcc national station ownership cap, see regulation television. ( 3 ) mynetworktv affiliate. ( 4 ) the company also owns and operates kftc, channel 26, bemidji, mn as a satellite station of wftc, channel 29, minneapolis, mn. 7 table of contents fox broadcasting company ( fox ) fox has 217 fox affiliates, including the 17 stations owned and operated by the company, which reach approximately 99% of all u.s. television households. in general, each week fox regularly delivers to its affiliates 15 hours of prime-time programming and 90 minutes of late-night programming on saturday. fox prime-time programming features such series as house , the simpsons , bones , fringe, and 24 ; unscripted series such as american idol and so you think you can dance ; and various movies and specials. in addition, a significant component of fox programming consists of sports programming, with fox providing to its affiliates live coverage (including post-season) of the national football conference of the national football league (the nfl ) and major league baseball ( mlb ), as well as live coverage of the premier racing series (the sprint cup series) of the national association of stock car auto racing ( nascar ) and the bowl championship series ( bcs ) (excluding the bcs championship game). fox also airs a two-hour block of direct response programming on saturday mornings provided by worldlink ventures ( worldlink ), a media sales firm. fox agreement with worldlink extends through the 2009-2010 broadcast season. fox prime-time line-up is intended to appeal primarily to target audiences of 18 to 49-year old adults, the demographic group that advertisers seek to reach most often. during the 2008-2009 traditional september to may broadcast season, fox ranked first in prime-time programming based on viewership of adults aged 18 to 49 (fox had a 3.7 rating and a 10 share, abc had a 2.9 rating and an 8 share, cbs had a 3.2 rating and a 9 share and nbc had a 2.8 rating and a 7 share). the median age of the fox viewer is 45 years, as compared to 47 years for nbc, 49 years for abc and 53 years for cbs. fox obtains programming from major television studios and independent television production companies pursuant to license agreements. the terms of those agreements generally provide fox with the right to broadcast a television series for a minimum of four seasons. fox licenses its film programming from major film studios and independent film production companies. national sports programming, such as the nfl, mlb and nascar programming, is obtained under license agreements with professional sports leagues or organizations. fox current licenses with the nfl, mlb, and nascar extend until the 2013 nfl season, the 2013 mlb season and the 2014 nascar season. fox also has the right to broadcast the bcs through 2010. fox provides programming to the fox affiliates in accordance with affiliation agreements of varying durations, which grant to each affiliate the right to broadcast network television programming on the affiliated station. such agreements typically run three or more years and have staggered expiration dates. these affiliation agreements generally require fox affiliates to carry fox programming in all time periods in which fox programming is offered to those affiliates, subject to certain exceptions stated in the affiliation agreements. mynetworktv mynetworktv is currently a primetime general entertainment broadcast television network with 179 affiliates, including ten stations owned and operated by the company, and reaching approximately 97% of u.s. households. through the 2008-2009 television season, mynetworktv delivered two hours per night of branded prime-time programming every night of the week except sunday. branded nights of programming included entertainment shows on monday, reality crime shows on tuesday, comedy on wednesdays, movies on thursdays and saturdays and wwe smackdown on fridays. for the 2009-2010 television season that begins in september 2009, mynetworktv will be moving to a new distribution programming service model, distributing two hours per night of original and off-network programming for twentieth television and other third party syndicators to its affiliates. with this transition, mynetworktv is entering into new affiliation agreements with its affiliates. as of august 10, 2009, mynetworktv had 133 affiliates for the 2009-2010 television season, including 10 affiliates owned by the company, which will reach approximately 83% of u.s. households. competition . the network television broadcasting business is highly competitive. fox and mynetworktv compete for programming, viewers and advertising with abc, nbc, cbs and the cw television network. 8 table of contents abc, nbc and cbs each broadcasts a significantly greater number of hours of programming than fox and mynetworktv and, accordingly, may be able to designate or change time periods in which programming is to be broadcast with greater flexibility than fox or mynetworktv. fox and mynetworktv also compete with other non-network sources of television service, including cable television and dbs services. other sources of competition may include home video exhibition, digital video recorders ( dvr ), the internet and home computer usage. in addition, future technological developments may affect competition within the television marketplace. each of the stations owned and operated by fox television stations also competes for advertising revenues with other television stations and radio and cable systems in its respective market area and with other advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail and internet websites. all of the stations owned and operated by fox television stations are located in highly competitive markets. additional elements that are material to the competitive position of each of the television stations include management experience, authorized power and assigned frequency of that station. competition for sales of broadcast advertising time is based primarily on the anticipated and actually delivered size and demographic characteristics of audiences as determined by various rating services, price, the time of day when the advertising is to be broadcast, competition from the other broadcast networks, cable television systems, dbs services and other media and general economic conditions. competition for audiences is based primarily on the selection of programming, the acceptance of which is dependent on the reaction of the viewing public that is often difficult to predict. star star group limited ( star ) engages in the development, production and broadcasting of television programming, primarily in asia. star offers 69 channels in thirteen languages. star owned and affiliated channels are distributed in the following regions: india; greater china; indonesia; the rest of south east asia; pakistan; the middle east and north africa; the united kingdom and europe; and north america, reaching approximately 300 million people in 136 million households. star programming is distributed primarily via satellite to local cable, internet protocol television ( iptv ) and direct-to-home ( dth ) operators for distribution to their subscribers. star is one of the leading providers of television programming in asia. of the 69 channels currently offered by star, 35 channels are wholly-owned and operated by star, including, among others, star plus, star chinese channel, channel [v], star world, star movies, star chinese movies and xing kong wei shi. star channels are distributed on both a pay television and a free-to-air basis. star also provides 34 channels that are joint ventures between the company and other entities, including channels owned and operated by phoenix satellite television holdings limited ( phoenix ), espn star sports, media content &amp; communications services (india) private limited ( mccs ), vijay television private limited ( vptl ) and asianet communications limited. star has an approximate 18% interest in phoenix, a company listed on the main board of the stock exchange of hong kong limited. phoenix owns and operates chinese language general entertainment, movie and current affairs channels, all of which are targeted at chinese audiences around the world and are primarily distributed on a free or an encrypted basis via pay television platforms in asia and europe and pay television platforms in the united states. espn star sports, a 50/50 joint venture between star and espn, is the leading sports broadcaster in asia and operates 17 channels in different languages. mccs, an approximate 26% star owned joint venture with the ananda bazar patrika group, owns and operates three indian language 24-hour news and current affairs channels. in january 2009, star expanded into south india regional programming by forming star jupiter, a joint venture with asianet tv holdings private limited to provide television services for south indian audiences. the joint venture consists of a 80.9% stake by star in vtpl, which owns and operates the tamil language channel vijay, and vtpl, in turn, holds a 62.9% stake in asianet communications limited which owns and operates the malayalam language channels asianet and asianet plus, the kannada language channel suvarna and the telugu language channel sitara. 9 table of contents in addition, star owns an approximate 26% stake in balaji telefilms limited ( balaji ), which is one of the largest television content production companies in india, the shares of which are listed on the stock exchange, mumbai and the national stock exchange of india. balaji currently produces serials broadcast on star plus and other general entertainment channels in india. star also holds a 20% stake in tata sky limited which owns and operates a dth platform in india, an approximate 22% stake in hathway cable &amp; datacom private limited, a multi-system cable operator in india that also provides broadband internet services, and a 49% interest in channel [v] thailand which owns a thai language music channel and licenses its channel [v] brand to a third party in australia to operate a music channel. star also has a 50/50 joint venture with den digital entertainment networks private limited to operate a television channel distribution business in india, nepal, bangladesh, sri lanka and bhutan, which exclusively distributes star owned and affiliated channels in these territories. in fiscal 2009, star expanded into television home shopping in india through a 50/50 joint venture with cj o shopping co. ltd., a leading home shopping company in south korea and china. star also holds a 20% interest in pt cakrawala andalas televisi ( catv ), an indonesian free-to-air terrestrial television broadcaster. in june 2009, star entered into an agreement with the other shareholders of catv to consolidate catv with tvone, another free-to-air terrestrial television broadcaster. under the agreement, star will acquire a 7.5% interest in the consolidated entity. the transaction is subject to certain closing conditions and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of calendar 2009. the primary sources of programming on star owned and affiliated channels include rights to broadcast over many territories in asia and other parts of the world: (i) original indian, english and chinese television programming produced, commissioned or acquired by star, including programming in hd; (ii) many of asia most popular sporting events, such as international cricket council cricket; (iii) an extensive contemporary chinese film library comprising over 650 titles; and (iv) an extensive hindi film library comprising 731 titles and an extensive hindi television program library comprising about 480 titles. star other sources of programming include rights to broadcast music videos, as well as music and youth-oriented programming, produced and carried on channel [v]. star and twentieth century fox jointly produce and distribute films in asia in the indian and chinese languages. competition . generally, star competes with various channels for a share of subscription, distribution, channel position, ratings and programming. in india, the pay television broadcasting industry has several participants, and star indian entertainment channels compete with both pay and free-to-air channels since they are delivered by common cable. star also competes in india to acquire both hindi film and programming rights and, through its 50% owned sports joint venture, espn star sports, for sports broadcast rights, such as cricket rights. in mainland china, star competes primarily in two distinct markets for which it has received government approvals to distribute its services. one is among three-star and above hotels and other approved organizations and institutions that are allowed to receive overseas satellite television channels throughout mainland china. the second is among general households in guangdong that can view local chinese channels. in taiwan, star competes with various local and foreign satellite channels, depending on programming genre. in the middle east, star competes with both pay channels (in the south asian and english languages) as well as free-to-air channels for viewership, program rights, distribution and advertising sales. cable network programming the company produces and licenses news, business news, sports, general entertainment and movie programming for distribution to distributors in the united states and internationally. 10 table of contents fox news. fox news owns and operates the fox news channel, a 24-hour all news national cable channel currently available to approximately 97 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research, as well as the fox business network which launched to 30 million subscribers in october 2007 and currently has over 50 million subscribers. fox news also produces a weekend political commentary show, fox news sunday , for broadcast on local fox television stations throughout the united states. fox news, through its fox news edge service, licenses news feeds to fox affiliates and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts throughout the united states and abroad. fox news also produces and runs the websites, foxnews.com and foxbusiness.com, and owns and produces the national fox news radio network, which licenses news updates, long form programs and the fox news talk channel to local radio stations and to satellite radio providers. fsn . fox sports net, inc. ( fsn, inc. ) is the largest regional sports network ( rsn ) programmer in the united states, focusing on live professional and major collegiate home team sports events. fsn, inc. sports programming business currently consists primarily of ownership interests in 12 rsns, including numerous sub-regional feeds (the fsn rsns ) and national sports programming, which operates fsn ( fsn ), a national sports programming service. fsn, inc. also is affiliated with, through fsn, an additional nine rsns that are not owned by fsn, inc. (the fsn affiliated rsns ). fsn provides the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns with national sports programming, featuring original and licensed sports-related programming, as well as live and replay sporting events. the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns currently have approximately 91 million subscribers and have rights to telecast live games of 68 of 82 u.s. professional sports teams in mlb, the national basketball association ( nba ) and the national hockey league ( nhl ); collegiate conferences; and numerous college and high school sports teams. fx . currently reaching approximately 95 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research, fx is a general entertainment network that telecasts a growing roster of original series, as well as acquired television series and motion pictures. fx lineup for the 2009-2010 season includes popular original programming such as the emmy &reg; and golden globe &reg; award-winning drama series nip/tuck and damages and the critically acclaimed rescue me . also included in the 2009-2010 season line-up is the fifth season of the comedy series it always sunny in philadelphia and the second season of sons of anarchy . current syndicated series include that 70 show , spin city, malcolm in the middle and the bernie mac show . during the 2009-2010 season, fx will also showcase the television premieres of theatrical motion pictures, including live free or die hard, superman 3, kung fu panda, and the simpsons movie. the company also produces and distributes fx hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in hd. speed . currently reaching over 73 million households in the united states according to nielsen media research, speed brings viewers into the world of auto and motorcycle racing and the surrounding lifestyle, showcasing significant nascar races (including exclusive coverage of the annual all star race), events and original programming, as well as other top racing series, such as formula one, grand american road racing, american lemans, the 24 hours of lemans, american motorcycle association, ama supercross, monster jam, world superbike and motogp racing and events. speed popular original series pinks all out is a reality-based racing show in its third season that pits amateur racers against each other in a unique drag racing format. speed original series, wrecked , will return for a second season in 2009 as well as the new series, dangerous drives . speed also is distributed to subscribers in mexico, canada and latin america. the company also produces and distributes speed hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in hd. fuel tv . fuel tv is the only domestic 24-hour programming service dedicated to action sports and the lifestyle surrounding it. fuel tv covers both competitive and performance action in the arenas of skateboarding, surfing, bmx, freestyle motocross, snowboarding and wakeboarding. programming includes u.s. and international action sports events and competitions, as well as original series and specials about top action sports athletes and their music, art and culture from a global perspective. 11 table of contents fox college sports . fox college sports consists of three regionally-aligned networks, fcs pacific, fcs central and fcs atlantic. fox college sports provides live and delayed collegiate events from the nation top collegiate conferences, coaches shows and collegiate highlight and magazine-format programming from the fsn rsns and certain of the fsn affiliated rsns across the country. fox movie channel . fox movie channel ( fmc ) is hollywood first and only studio-based movie network. fmc airs twentieth century fox films, as well as documentaries and original series that explore the moviemaking process from script to screen. fox soccer channel . fox soccer channel is an english-language programming service offering comprehensive coverage of world-class soccer. top properties include the uefa champions league, english premier league, italian serie a and major league soccer, along with daily soccer news programs and a weekly viewer call-in show. fox pan american sports . the company has an approximate 33% equity interest in fox pan american sports llc ( fpas ), with hm capital partners, llc owning the remainder. fpas owns and operates spanish-language sports businesses, including the fox sports latin america network (a spanish-language sports network distributed to subscribers in certain caribbean and central and south american nations outside of brazil) and fox sports en espa&ntilde;ol (the first spanish-language sports programming service to be distributed in the united states). fox reality channel . fox reality channel is a 24-hour national programming service that airs original, off-network and syndicated unscripted programming made popular on major u.s. and international networks. big ten network . the company owns an approximate 49% interest in the big ten network, a 24-hour national programming service dedicated to the big ten conference and big ten athletics, academics and related programming, and big ten network hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in hd. national geographic . the company holds an approximate 67% interest in ngc network us llc, which produces and distributes the national geographic channel and the national geographic channel hd in the united states, with ngt, inc., a subsidiary of the national geographic society ( ngt ), holding the remaining interest. the national geographic channel currently reaches approximately 69 million households in the united states according to nielsen media research. the company also owns a 52.2% interest in ngc network international llc and ngc network latin america llc (collectively ngc international ), with ngt holding a 26.8% interest and a subsidiary of bskyb holding the remaining 21% interest. ngc international produces and distributes the national geographic channel in various international markets. ngc international also produces and distributes the national geographic channel hd, the nat geo adventure channel, the nat geo wild channel and the nat geo music channel in international markets. the national geographic channel is currently shown in 34 languages and in approximately 166 countries internationally, including the united states. the national geographic channels air documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture. fox international channels ( fic ). fic owns and operates channels in various countries in europe, latin america, the caribbean, africa and asia, including: the fox channel, fox life, fx, speed and utilisma in latin america; fox, fox crime, fox life, fx, cult, next and the history channel in italy; fox in germany, fx in the united kingdom; fox and fox life in japan; fox, fox crime, fox life, next and fx in portugal; the voyage channel and fox life in france; fox in spain and korea; the history channel in india; fox life and fox crime in several countries in eastern europe; fox life in poland; and fox life, fx, fx vod, fox sports and fox sports hd in turkey. fic also manages the universal channels in latin america. 12 table of contents the fox, fx and fox life branded channels have first-run and library series programming and theatrical movies acquired primarily from major film studios, as well as original productions. cult is a factual entertainment channel featuring arts and cultural programming. the history channel provides factual series and specials acquired primarily from a&amp;e television networks. the voyage channel is focused on travel related programming. fox crime is focused on crime related programming and next is a hd documentary channel. fic owns a 55% equity interest in laptv, a partnership which distributes three premium pay television channels (movie city east and west, cinecanal east and west and its multiplex channel cinecanal 2) and one basic television channel (the film zone east and west) in latin america (excluding brazil). such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of twentieth century fox and three other studio partners in the english language with spanish subtitles. fic has voting control over an additional 22.5% interest in laptv. fic also owns a majority equity interest in elite sports limited, a company that owns and distributes babytv, a 24-hour channel dedicated to infants and toddlers under three years old to over 65 countries outside of the united states. competition. general. cable network programming is another highly competitive business. cable networks compete for distribution and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with free-to-air broadcast television, radio, print media, motion picture theaters, dvds, internet, wireless and portable viewing devices and other sources of information and entertainment. important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. fox news. fox news channel primary competition comes from the cable networks cnn, msnbc and cnn headline news. fox business network primary competition comes from the cable networks cnbc and bloomberg television. fox news channel and fox business network also compete for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks and free-to-air broadcast television networks. sports programming operations. a number of basic and pay television programming services, such as espn and versus, as well as free-to-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that also targets the fsn rsns audience. fsn is the leading programming service distributing a full range of sports programming on both a national and regional level. on a national level, fsn primary competitor is espn and, to a lesser extent, espn2 and versus. in regional markets, the fsn rsns compete with other regional sports networks, including those operated by team owners, cable television systems, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors. in addition, the fsn rsns and fsn compete, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. the fsn rsns compete for local and regional rights with local broadcast television stations, other local and regional sports networks, including sports networks launched by team owners and distribution outlets, such as cable television systems. fsn competes for national rights principally with a number of national cable services that specialize in or carry sports programming, including sports networks launched by the leagues and conferences, and television superstations that distribute sports. independent syndicators also compete by acquiring and reselling such rights nationally, regionally and locally. distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, sometimes contract directly with the sports teams in their service area for the right to distribute a number of those teams games on their systems. in certain markets, the owners of distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, also own one or more of the professional teams in the region, increasing their ability to launch competing networks and also limiting the professional sports rights available for acquisition by fsn rsns. fx. fx faces competition from a number of basic cable and pay television programming services, such as usa, tnt, spike tv, hbo and showtime, as well as free-to-air broadcast networks that provide programming that targets the same viewing audience as fx. fx also faces competition from these programming services in the acquisition of distribution rights to movie and series programming. 13 table of contents direct broadcast satellite television the company engages in the direct broadcast satellite business through its subsidiary, sky italia. the company also owns equity interests in bskyb and sky deutschland ag (formerly premiere ag) ( sky deutschland ), which are engaged in the dbs business (for a description of the businesses of these equity interests, please see discussion under heading equity interests ). sky italia sky italia currently distributes over 180 channels of basic, premium and pay-per-view programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in italy. this programming includes exclusive rights to popular sporting events, newly-released movies and sky italia original programming, such as sky news , italy first 24-hour news channel. as of june 30, 2009, sky italia had approximately 4.8 million subscribers. competition . the number of pay television subscribers with services in italy, other than sky italia, is growing and is expected to continue to increase. sky italia competition includes companies that offer video, audio, interactive programming, telephony, data and other information and entertainment services, including broadband internet providers, digital terrestrial transmission ( dtt ) services, wireless companies and companies that are developing new media technologies. the company is currently prohibited from providing a dtt service under regulations of the european commission. competition is encouraged through the regulatory environment that requires sky italia to wholesale its premium programming, to limit the length and exclusivity of certain of its premium programming contracts, as well as to provide third parties with access to the sky italia platform. magazines and inserts the company engages in marketing operations, primarily the publication of free-standing inserts, the provision of in-store marketing products and services and magazine publishing. news america marketing group the company u.s. marketing operations are organized under news america marketing group ( namg ). namg consists primarily of free-standing insert publications and in-store marketing products and services. namg is one of the two largest publishers of free-standing inserts in the united states. free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, rebates and other consumer offers, which are distributed to consumers through insertion primarily into local sunday newspapers. advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay namg to produce free-standing inserts, and namg contracts with and pays newspapers to include the free-standing inserts primarily into the newspapers sunday editions. namg produces over 69 million free-standing inserts more than 45 times a year, which are inserted in approximately 1,500 sunday newspapers throughout the united states. namg, through an affiliate, also produces over eight million free-standing inserts approximately 15 times annually, which are inserted into over 200 canadian newspapers in canada. namg is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged goods manufacturers, with products in more than 50,000 supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, office supply stores and mass merchandisers worldwide. smartsource &reg; is the brand name that is linked with namg vast assortment of marketing products, including, among others, free-standing inserts, namg instant coupon machines and various shelf advertising products. the smartsource &reg; brand currently reaches approximately 150 million consumers weekly. 14 table of contents the smartsource igroup manages namg portfolio of database marketing and on-line marketing products and services. the database marketing business, branded smartsource direct, provides database marketing and technology solutions for both retailers and manufacturers. the smartsource savings network, which includes smartsource.com, is an internet-based network of approximately 230 newspaper, retailer and lifestyle sites connected through a common platform that currently delivers printable coupons, samples and other consumer marketing to an audience of approximately 65 million consumers. competition . namg competes against other providers of marketing products and services, including those that provide promotional or advertising inserts and direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, as well as those that provide trade and in-store advertisements and promotions. competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, and rate of coupon redemption. magazines news magazines pty. ltd ( news magazines ) produces both direct sale magazines and inserts for the company australian newspapers. news magazines publishes over 25 direct sale magazines, including food titles such as donna hay, delicious and super food ideas, lifestyle titles such as insideout , vogue australia , vogue living , gq australia , notebook and gardening australia, and specialist titles such as alpha mad about sport , which is a sport and lifestyle men magazine. news magazines also publishes sunday magazine , which is an insert in the company australian newspapers in sydney and melbourne. the company published the weekly standard , a weekly magazine offering political commentary in the united states, through june 2009 when it sold the magazine to the clarity media group. competition . the magazines all compete for circulation and advertising revenue with other published products, in their same categories, as well as other forms of media. competition for circulation is based on the editorial and informational content of each publication and its price. competition for advertising is based on circulation levels, reader demographics, advertising rates and advertiser results. newspapers and information services the company is engaged in the newspaper and information services business, primarily through its subsidiaries news international, news limited, dow jones and the new york post. news international limited ( news international ) news international publishes the times , the sunday times , the sun and news of the world in the united kingdom and ireland. sales of these four newspapers account for approximately one-third of all national newspapers sold in the united kingdom. both the times , a daily published monday through saturday, and the sunday times are leading quality newspapers. the sun , published each morning monday through saturday, and news of the world , published on sunday, are both popular, mass market newspapers. the average paid circulation for each of these four national newspapers during the six months ended june 30, 2009 was approximately: the times 599,009; the sunday times 1,214,603; the sun 3,022,058; and news of the world 2,993,776. news international also publishes thelondonpaper , a free newspaper distributed by hand in central london each afternoon monday through friday. the printing of all four of news international national newspapers (except saturday and sunday supplements) takes place principally in its four printing facilities located in england, scotland and ireland. news international also publishes the times literary supplement , a weekly literary review. 15 table of contents news limited news limited is the largest newspaper publisher in australia, owning approximately 146 daily, sunday, weekly, bi-weekly and tri-weekly newspapers, of which four are free commuter titles and 102 are suburban publications (including 16 of which news limited has a 50% interest). news limited publishes the only nationally distributed general interest newspaper in australia, the leading metropolitan newspapers in each of the major australian cities of sydney, melbourne, brisbane, adelaide, perth, hobart and darwin and the leading suburban newspapers in the suburbs of sydney, melbourne, adelaide, brisbane and perth. news limited daily and sunday newspapers account for more than 69% of the total circulation of all daily and sunday newspapers (excluding suburban and regional newspapers) published in australia. news limited principal daily newspapers in australia are: the australian; the daily telegraph , published in sydney; the herald sun , published in melbourne; the courier-mail, published in brisbane; the advertiser , published in adelaide; the mercury , published in hobart; and the northern territory news , published in darwin. the australian , which is australia only general interest national daily newspaper, is printed in six cities and distributed nationwide. news limited other principal daily newspapers in australia are mass circulation, regional newspapers with broad-based readerships and are published and distributed regionally. the average monday to friday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers during fiscal 2009 was approximately as follows: the australian 138,000; the daily telegraph 373,000; the herald sun 520,000; the courier-mail 218,000; the advertiser 186,000; the mercury 46,000; and the northern territory news 22,000. the average saturday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers during fiscal 2009 was approximately as follows: the weekend australian 310,000; the daily telegraph 327,000; the herald sun 509,000; the courier-mail 305,000; the advertiser 255,000; the mercury 62,000; and the northern territory news 32,000. news limited principal sunday newspapers in australia are: the sunday telegraph , published in sydney; the sunday herald sun , published in melbourne; the sunday mail, published in brisbane; the sunday mail , published in adelaide; the sunday times , published in perth; the sunday tasmanian , published in hobart; and the sunday territorian, published in darwin. all these newspapers are mass circulation, metropolitan sunday newspapers with broad-based readerships reflecting the diversity of the populations of the cities in which they are published. the average paid circulation of each of these sunday newspapers during fiscal 2009 was approximately as follows: the sunday telegraph 653,000; the sunday herald sun 616,000; the sunday mail (brisbane ) 557,000; the sunday mail (adelaide) 307,000; the sunday times 321,000; the sunday tasmanian 60,000; and the sunday territorian 23,000. the other newspapers that news limited owns and publishes in australia are distributed to a wide range of readers in urban, suburban and rural areas and are principally weekly publications. the majority of such newspapers are free-distribution suburban publications. in the sydney suburban markets, news limited owns 23 weekly newspapers; in melbourne, 33 weekly newspapers; in brisbane, 19 weekly newspapers; in adelaide, 11 weekly newspapers; and in perth, news limited 50% owned suburban group publishes 16 weekly newspapers. the aggregate average weekly circulations of these suburban newspapers for the six months ended march 31, 2009 was approximately 5,119,000 homes. in addition to these newspapers, news limited also publishes four other publications (three monthlies and one weekly) with an average circulation for the six months ended march 31, 2009 of approximately 130,000 homes for the monthly titles and approximately 40,000 for the weekly title. news limited suburban newspapers are leading publications in terms of advertising and circulation in each of their respective markets. news limited other newspapers in australia are regional newspapers, circulating throughout broader, less densely populated areas. except for 36 of its suburban newspapers and four regional newspapers, news limited australian newspapers are produced and printed in facilities owned by the company. 16 table of contents dow jones dow jones provides global business and financial news, information and insight through multiple channels of media. dow jones consumer media business includes the wall street journal, barron and marketwatch franchises (including print, online, television and radio), and its enterprise media business includes factiva, newswires, client solutions, indexes and other products and services. dow jones local media business provides news and information of general interest to local communities throughout the united states. consumer media group . dow jones consumer media business offers business and financial information content to the consumer market around the globe. the wall street journal . the wall street journal is one of the united states largest daily national newspapers. during fiscal 2009, the wall street journal had an average print circulation of 1.7 million. the wall street journal three major national editions are printed at 21 plants (including contract printers), of which 12 are owned by dow jones. the wall street journal also sells regional advertising in 18 regional editions and pre-printed advertisements in various subsets of the circulation. barron . barron is a weekly magazine that caters to financial professionals, individual investors and others interested in financial markets. in fiscal 2009, barron had an average weekly circulation of 310,000. barron is printed at 19 plants, including the 12 plants owned by dow jones, as well as additional contract printers. the wall street journal digital network . the wall street journal digital network consists of wsj.com, marketwatch.com, barron s.com, and related sites and, as of june 30, 2009, served 34 million visitors per month with more than 550 million page views. wsj.com is the largest paid subscription news website on the internet, with over one million subscribers as of june 30, 2009. certain sections of wsj.com are also available to non-subscribers. marketwatch.com covers the pulse of the markets for engaged investors, and is a leading provider of business, company and market news, financial information and analytics. barron online is a stand-alone subscription product, which had more than 150,000 subscribers as of june 30, 2009. international editions of the wall street journal . the wall street journal europe , which had an average circulation of 81,000 during fiscal 2009, is headquartered in london and printed in belgium, germany, ireland, israel, italy, spain, switzerland, turkey and the united kingdom. the wall street journal asia , which had an average circulation of 80,000 during fiscal 2009, is headquartered in hong kong and printed in hong kong, india, indonesia, japan, korea, malaysia, the philippines, singapore, taiwan and thailand. dow jones also publishes the wall street journal special editions, which are a collection of the wall street journal pages in local languages. other channels of distribution and publications. dow jones consumer media business also includes other channels of content distribution, including: television; radio/audio; online video; consumer electronic licensing; and the wall street journal classroom, campus and sunday editions. dow jones also publishes the far eastern economic review , a hong kong-based monthly periodical. in addition, efinancialnews holdings ltd., based in london, serves the european financial services industry with print, online, training and events businesses. enterprise media group . dow jones enterprise media business offers business and financial news, information and solutions to financial services firms, businesses and government institutions around the world. in fiscal 2009, the enterprise media group reorganized its business to better align to market opportunities in ten key customer and industry segments wealth management, investment banking, investment management, sales &amp; trading, b2b sales, researchers &amp; knowledge workers, public relations &amp; corporate communications, private markets, risk &amp; compliance and energy &amp; commodities. the enterprise media group is focused on developing new products and services tailored to the specific needs of the professionals in those segments. 17 table of contents the enterprise media group provides real-time news, research, aggregated content and information solutions to organizations through the following products: dow jones factiva, dow jones newswires, dow jones venturesource and specialty publications and databases. dow jones factiva is a leading provider of global business content with approximately 1.8 million paying subscribers as of june 30, 2009. dow jones newswires is a premier provider of real-time business news and information for approximately 438,000 financial professionals around the world as of june 30, 2009. as of june 30, 2009, dow jones newswires had a dedicated staff of approximately 900 journalists, in addition to drawing on the global resources of the wall street journal and agence france-presse. dow jones venturesource is a database of over 43,000 venture-backed companies and over 11,000 private capital firms across the united states, europe, israel and china also, the enterprise media group dow jones indexes business licenses the dow jones industrial average and other indexes as the basis for trading options, futures, unit trusts, annuities, exchange traded funds, mutual funds, derivatives and specialized structured products. dow jones indexes offers more than 130,000 indexes, including a variety of specialty and hedge fund indexes. it also sells or licenses the data behind various indexes for benchmarking purposes. through dow jones reprint solutions, dow jones sells print or electronic reprints of the wall street journal and barron stories. local media group . dow jones local media group publishes local media print publications, including eight general interest dailies published in california, massachusetts, new hampshire, new york, oregon and pennsylvania, and related local websites. during fiscal 2009, average print circulation for these dailies was approximately 247,000, with sunday circulation of approximately 282,000. the local media group also publishes 14 weekly newspapers and more than 30 other publications. strategic alliances. smartmoney . smartmoney is a 50/50 joint venture between dow jones and hearst. smartmoney magazine, published monthly, had circulation of more than 800,000 copies in the fiscal year ended june 30, 2009. smartmoney also includes smartmoney.com and smartmoney custom solutions. vedomosti . vedomosti is a joint venture owned equally by dow jones, pearson plc and independent media, which publishes a russian language business daily. vedomosti had circulation of over 55,000 in the fiscal year ended june 30, 2009, and includes original content and content from the wall street journal and the financial times translated into russian. stoxx, ltd . ( stoxx ). stoxx is a joint venture owned equally by dow jones, the deutsche borse and the swiss exchange. stoxx develops, maintains, distributes and markets the dow jones stoxx indices. dj/iac online ventures, llc ( dj/iac online ventures ). dj/iac online ventures is a 50/50 joint venture with iac/interactivecorp that operates a community-driven, personal finance website. new york post the new york post (the post ) is a mass circulation, metropolitan morning newspaper published seven days a week and distributed in new york city, baltimore, boston, florida and california. for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2009, the newspaper had an average weekday circulation of approximately 550,000. the company prints the post in a printing facility in the bronx, new york and uses third party printers in its other markets in the united states. the company community newspaper group also owns several local newspapers and other publications distributed in the new york metropolitan area. 18 table of contents competition general . the newspapers published by the company compete for readership and advertising with local and national newspapers and also compete with television, radio, the internet and other communications media in their respective locales. competition for newspaper circulation is based on the news and editorial content of the newspaper, cover price and, from time to time, various promotions. the success of the newspapers published by the company in competing with other newspapers and media for advertising depends upon advertisers judgments as to the most effective use of their advertising budgets. competition for advertising among newspapers is based upon circulation levels, readership levels, reader demographics, advertising rates and advertiser results. such judgments are based on factors such as cost, availability of alternative media, circulation and quality of readership demographics. in recent years, the newspaper industry has experienced difficulty increasing or maintaining circulation volume and revenues. this is due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media formats and sources and shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news from sources other than a newspaper. the company believes that competition from new media formats and sources and shifting consumer preferences will continue to pose challenges within the newspaper industry. dow jones online publications . dow jones online publications compete with other websites that offer continuously updated coverage of business news, as well as licensing of electronic content. unlike wsj.com, competitors do not, for the most part, utilize an online paid subscription model, and most remain free sites. competitors of dow jones online publications include ft.com, new york times digital, thestreet.com, bloomberg, forbes.com, yahoo!finance, cnet, cnn money, msnmoney/cnbc and google finance. dow jones enterprise media . dow jones newswires compete with other global financial newswires, including thomson reuters and bloomberg l.p., as well as many internet-based providers of financial news and information. dow jones newswires maintain a stronger market position in north america than internationally. dow jones indexes competes with the indexes distributed by various organizations, including standard &amp; poor s, ftse (the index company that is jointly owned by the london stock exchange and the financial times) and msci, inc. factiva competes with various business information service providers, including lexisnexis, thomson reuters, hoover and onesource. factiva also competes with various internet-based information search services, such as google, microsoft and yahoo!. book publishing harpercollins publishers ( harpercollins ) is engaged in english language book publishing on a worldwide basis and is one of the world largest english language book publishers. harpercollins principal businesses are harpercollins publishers llc ( harpercollins u.s. ), headquartered in new york, harpercollins publishers limited, headquartered in london, and the zondervan corporation llc, headquartered in grand rapids, michigan. harpercollins primarily publishes fiction and non-fiction, including religious books, for the general consumer. in the united kingdom, harpercollins publishes some titles for the educational market as well. during fiscal 2009, harpercollins u.s. had 165 titles on the new york times bestseller list, with 15 titles hitting number one, including act like a lady, think like a man by steve harvey, the story of edgar sawtelle by david wroblewski, anathem by neal stephenson, deceptively delicious by jessica seinfeld, marley &amp; me by john grogan, the grand finale by janet evanovich, mr. cavendish, i presume by julia quinn, the graveyard book by neil gaiman and dave mckean, the awakening by kelley armstrong, wings by aprilynne pike, goldilicious by victoria kann, coraline by neil gaiman, big words for little people by jamie lee curtis, a very marley christmas by john grogan and the night before christmas by clement c. moore. competition . the book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market and has been affected by consolidation trends. this market continues to change in response to technological innovations, electronic 19 table of contents book devices and other factors. recent years have brought a number of significant mergers among leading book publishers. there have also been a number of mergers completed in the distribution channel. harpercollins must compete with other publishers, such as random house, penguin group, simon &amp; schuster and hachette livre, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities. although harpercollins currently has strong positions in each of its markets, further consolidation in the book publishing industry could place it at a competitive disadvantage with respect to scale and resources. other fox interactive media fox interactive media, inc. ( fim ) digital media properties include myspace.com, foxsports.com, scout.com, ign.com, rottentomatoes.com, askmen.com, photobucket.com and other company web properties. these businesses create original entertainment, news and information content and leverage the company current and archived video assets, and derive revenue principally from the sale of internet advertising and sponsorships, as well as from subscription services and e-commerce, including the digital sale of video games, television programming and other entertainment products. the company has a search technology and services agreement through august 2010 with google inc. ( google ), pursuant to which google provides search and keyword targeted advertising on an exclusive basis for a majority of the company web properties domestically and internationally. myspace is a technology company connecting people through personal expression, content, and culture. myspace.com had approximately 68.4 million unique u.s. users in june 2009 according to comscore media metrix. myspace is a social networking website that integrates personal profiles, photos, videos, mobile, messaging, games, and the world largest music community. myspace video (formerly myspacetv) continues to distribute premium and user generated video content and tools to its users and recently announced programming partnerships with hbo and endemol (for the web original married on myspace ). myspace launched a number of new features, services and initiatives during fiscal 2009, including myspace local , a social community of small business profiles that empowers users to discover new businesses, create reviews and ratings and share their experiences at their favorite local restaurants, myspaceim, a web based instant messaging feature, and profile 2.0, a new profile option that comes with a set of customizable layouts and editing tools that allow users to easily modify the content as well as the look and feel of the profile. myspace music, llc ( myspace music ) is a partnership between myspace, sony bmg music entertainment, sony/atv music publishing, universal music group warner music group and emi group/capitol records. the myspace music service launched in september 2008 and combined the myspace music community with comprehensive catalogues of music content, offering music streaming, mp3 digital downloads, ringtones and other features. ign entertainment, inc. ( ign ) network of video game, lifestyle and entertainment-related internet properties represent many of the top web properties in their respective categories across the internet. ign games sites (ign.com, gamespy, fileplanet, teamxbox and others) is the number one gaming information network on the internet with over 14 million unique users and 232 million page views in the united states in june 2009 according to comscore media metrix. in addition, ign direct2drive is a digital distribution site and ign gamespy technology group provides technology for online game play in video games. ign also owns and operates one of the most popular movie review websites on the internet, rottentomatoes.com, and one of the leading men lifestyle websites, askmen.com. fox sports interactive, which includes foxsports.com, fox sports mobile, scout media and whatifsports.com, is a leader in digital sports programming, offering sports fans a comprehensive mix of news, 20 table of contents exclusive analysis, fantasy games and one of the internet largest collections of online sports video. foxsports.com, fox sports interactive flagship site, had an average of 13 million unique users and 334 million page views in the united states during june 2009 according to comscore media metrix. fox sports interactive produces more than four hours per day of original video specifically for the internet, which is distributed on foxsports.com, within msn video and, for fox sports mobile, on millions of mobile devices in the united states. fox sports mobile also includes live event programming. scout media provides college football, college basketball, nfl and mlb fans with exclusive access to team-specific insider information and a comprehensive database and video library of the top high school athletes in the united states. whatifsports.com is the leading provider of sports simulation games and game prediction statistics. the fox audience network is an online advertising network and technology services provider specializing in advanced targeting for fim websites and third-party clients, and serves advertising across over 500 publisher sites as of june 2009. photobucket.com, inc. operates one of the internet most popular sites, linking billions of personal photos, graphics, slideshows and videos daily to hundreds of thousands of websites worldwide. in june 2009, photobucket had over 24 million unique visitors and approximately 692 million page views in the united states according to comscore media metrix. competition . these digital media properties compete with other internet sites for advertisers, users and traffic. these properties develop new tools and features to remain competitive in the web 2.0 world. these new tools and features are key competitive factors in keeping users engaged with these digital media businesses. news outdoor news outdoor group ( news outdoor ) operates outdoor advertising companies. news outdoor owns an approximately 73% interest in media support services limited ( mss ), the largest outdoor advertising company in russia. in certain limited circumstances, the minority stockholders of mss have the right to sell, and news outdoor has the right to purchase, the minority interests at fair market value. news outdoor also owns or has interests in outdoor advertising companies in poland, romania, the czech republic, ukraine, bulgaria and southeast asia. the company has announced that it intends to explore strategic options for news outdoor in connection with news outdoor continued development plans. the strategic options include, but are not limited to, exploring the opportunity to expand news outdoor existing shareholder group through new partners. no agreement has yet been entered into with respect to any transaction. other operations the company operates fox mobile entertainment, which includes jamba (known as jamster in the united states, canada, the united kingdom and other english-speaking territories), a leading international provider of mobile entertainment, offering mobile products directly via mobile phones, including branded content from content providers around the world. such content includes music, mobile games, video and original content made exclusively for use on mobile phones. jamba currently distributes mobile content to consumers in over 25 territories around the world. the company owns or has interests in the following free-to-air, general entertainment television stations: btv and gtv in bulgaria; channel 10 in israel; lnt and tv5 in latvia; fox televizija in serbia; and fox tv in turkey. in addition, the company owns or operates interests in bulgarian and russian radio stations. news digital media is the company australian online division. in addition to maintaining the company australian websites, news digital media is responsible for online advertising and transactions in australia. news digital media sites include carsguide.com.au, news.com.au, moshtix.com.au and truelocal.com.au. news digital media also has a 50% stake in careerone.com.au. 21 table of contents equity interests bskyb the company holds an approximate 39% interest in bskyb. bskyb ordinary shares are listed on the london stock exchange and its american depositary shares, each representing four bskyb ordinary shares, are listed on the new york stock exchange ( nyse ), in each case under the symbol bsy. bskyb operates the leading pay television broadcast service in the united kingdom and ireland, as well as broadband and telephony services. bskyb acquires and commissions programming to broadcast on its own channels and supplies certain of those channels to cable operators for retransmission by the cable operators to their subscribers in the united kingdom and ireland. bskyb also retails channels (both its own and those of third parties) to dth subscribers and to certain of its own channels to a limited number of dsl subscribers. for more information on bskyb, please see its reports filed with the sec. nds the company holds an approximate 49% interest in nds. nds creates technologies and applications that enable pay television operators to deliver digital content to televisions, set-top boxes, dvrs, personal computers, portable media players, removable media and other mobile devices securely. foxtel the company, telstra corporation limited, an australian telecommunications company, and consolidated media holdings, an australian media and entertainment company, own and operate foxtel, a cable and satellite television service in australia with 25%, 50% and 25% interests, respectively. at june 30, 2009, foxtel had approximately 1.6 million managed subscribers (including subscribers to optus, an australian telecommunications company). at june 30, 2009, 100% of the foxtel managed subscriber base was connected to foxtel digital service, which delivers over 150 channels on cable and satellite. other investments skynz. the company owns an approximate 44% interest in sky network television limited, a land-linked uhf network and digital dbs service in new zealand. hulu . the company has an approximate 32% equity interest in hulu, llc ( hulu ) which operates an online video service that offers video content from fox, nbc universal, the walt disney company and over 100 other third party content licensors. hulu premium programming is available at hulu.com and over 35 destination sites online, including aol, imdb, msn, myspace and yahoo!. sky deutschland . as of june 30, 2009, the company owned an approximate 38% equity interest in sky deutschland, the leading pay television operator in germany and austria. since june 30, 2009, the company acquired additional shares in sky deutschland, increasing its ownership to 39.96 % as of august 5, 2009. government regulation general various aspects of the company activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. the company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations. the introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the company products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the interests of the company. 22 table of contents filmed entertainment united states. ffe is subject to the provisions of so-called trade practice laws in effect in 25 states relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. these laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain instances, also prohibit payment of advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by exhibitors. further, pursuant to various consent judgments, ffe and certain other motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on their trade practices in the united states, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis and, in some cases, a prohibition against the ownership of theaters. other international regulation. in countries outside of the united states, there are a variety of existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations that may affect the ability of ffe to distribute and/or license its motion picture and television products to cinema, television or in-home media, including copyright laws and regulations that may or may not be adequate to protect its interests, cinema screen quotas, television quotas, contract term limitations, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of u.s. products. the ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements, including the world trade organization general agreement on tariffs and trade and general agreement on trade and services; however, these agreements have limited application with respect to preventing the denial of market access to audio-visual products originating outside the european union. television united states. in general, the television broadcast industry in the united states is highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc regulates television broadcasting, and certain aspects of the operations of cable, satellite and other electronic media that compete with broadcasting, pursuant to the communications act of 1934, as amended (the communications act ). the communications act permits the operation of television broadcast stations only in accordance with a license issued by the fcc upon a finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. the fcc grants television broadcast station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms. under the communications act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum permitted term of eight years. generally, the fcc renews broadcast licenses upon finding that: (i) the television station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. after considering these factors, the fcc may grant the license renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted, or hold an evidentiary hearing. fox television stations has pending renewal applications for a number of its television station licenses. six of the pending applications have been opposed by third parties. on june 13, 2007 and may 15, 2008, fox television stations entered into agreements with the fcc that preclude it from objecting, on the grounds that such action is barred by certain statutes of limitations, to fcc or other governmental action relating to (i) petitions to deny or complaints that have been filed against several owned and operated stations relating to programming that is alleged to violate the prohibition against indecent broadcasts, or (ii) inquiries from the fcc regarding compliance with its sponsorship identification rules. for information on the television stations owned and operated by the company, see fox television stations above. 23 table of contents on june 12, 2009, all full-power broadcast television stations were required to cease transmission in analog and convert to all digital broadcasts ( dtv ). by that date, the 27 stations owned and operated by fox television stations terminated their analog transmissions and, as required by law, each station surrendered one of the two broadcast channels it had been allotted in order to facilitate the transition to dtv. all fox television stations continue to transmit digital signals on their remaining channels. under fcc rules, television stations may use their second channel to broadcast either one stream of high definition ( hd ) digital programming or to multicast several streams of standard definition digital programming or a mixture of both. broadcasters may also deliver data over these channels, provided that the supplemental services do not derogate the mandated, free-to-air program service. fox television stations is currently formulating plans for use of its digital channels. it is difficult to assess the impact of cessation of analog broadcasting and how the conversion to dtv will affect fox television stations business. on june 2, 2003, the fcc concluded the 2002 biennial review of its broadcast ownership regulations required by the 1996 telecom act by amending its rules governing the ownership of television and radio stations and by replacing its newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership ban and the radio/television cross-ownership restriction with a new set of cross-media ownership limits (the june 2003 order ). in the consolidated appropriations act of 2004, congress increased the national television station ownership cap to permit an entity to have an attributable ownership interest in an unlimited number of television stations nationally, so long as the audience reach of those stations does not exceed, in the aggregate and after the application of the uhf discount, 39% of u.s. television households. several parties appealed the june 2003 order. the united states court of appeals for the third circuit (the third circuit ) stayed the effectiveness of the new rules and, on june 24, 2004, remanded the fcc june 2003 order for additional justification or modification of the revisions the fcc had made to its ownership regulations. on february 4, 2008, the fcc issued an order that concluded its 2006 review of its broadcast ownership regulations and addressed the issues raised by the third circuit remand (the february 2008 order ). the commission decided there should be no changes to its rules relating to the ownership of multiple television stations in the same market. those rules (i) permit the ownership of two television stations with overlapping coverage areas if the stations are in separate dmas; and (ii) permit the ownership of two stations in the same dma if their grade b coverage areas do not overlap or if eight independently owned full power television stations will remain in the dma after the stations that had been independently owned become commonly owned, and one of the merged stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. on the question of common ownership of a broadcast station and a newspaper in the same market, the commission modified its rules to create a presumption that such combinations are in the public interest in the top 20 dmas provided (i) only one television station and one newspaper are involved; (ii) at least eight major media voices will remain in the dma after the combination; and (iii) the television station is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. any other newspaper/broadcast combination is presumed to be inconsistent with the public interest. the presumption may be overcome if certain criteria enumerated by the fcc are satisfied. the february 2008 order has been appealed by several parties, including the company, and the appeal is currently pending in the united states court of appeals for the third circuit. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the court action on this appeal or its effect on the company. fox television stations is in compliance with the rules governing ownership of multiple stations in the same market and with the national station ownership cap established by congress. fox television stations retains an attributable interest in the post and two television stations in the new york dma. on october 6, 2006, the fcc reaffirmed the company permanent waiver of the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, which allows the common ownership of the post and wnyw(tv), and granted a two-year temporary waiver of the rule to continue to allow the common ownership of the post and wwor-tv (the october 2006 order ). the wwor-tv/ post combination is not entitled to a positive presumption under the fcc revised newspaper cross-ownership rule because of the company ownership of a second television station in the new york dma. the company is seeking a permanent waiver of the prohibition from the fcc on the grounds that it satisfies the criteria to overcome the negative presumption contained in the new rule. parties opposed to the october 2006 24 table of contents order filed a petition for reconsideration with the fcc, which was denied on may 22, 2009. other opponents of the october 2006 order have asked the fcc to reconsider its may 22, 2009 decision and have filed an opposition to the company request for a permanent waiver. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the fcc action on this request for reconsideration or its effect on the company. fcc regulations implementing the cable television consumer protection and competition act of 1992 (the 1992 cable act ) require each television broadcaster to elect, at three-year intervals, either to (i) require carriage of its signal by cable systems in the station market ( must carry ) or (ii) negotiate the terms on which that broadcast station would permit transmission of its signal by the cable systems within its market ( retransmission consent ). generally, the company has elected retransmission consent for the stations owned and operated by fox television stations. on november 30, 2007, the fcc resolved issues relating to carriage requirements for digital broadcast television signals on cable systems by concluding that cable operators are required to ensure that all must carry television signals remain viewable in homes with only analog equipment. in addition, the fcc reaffirmed that must carry stations that multicast several streams of digital programming are entitled to the carriage by cable systems of only a single primary programming stream. the digital signals of stations that elect retransmission consent may be carried in any manner consistent with the agreement between the cable system and the broadcaster. the satellite home viewer improvement act of 1999 required satellite carriers, as of january 1, 2002, to carry upon request all television stations located in markets in which the satellite carrier retransmits at least one local station pursuant to the copyright license provided in the statute ( carry one, carry all ). fcc regulations implementing this statutory provision require affected stations to elect either mandatory carriage at the same three year intervals applicable to cable must carry or negotiate carriage terms with the satellite operators. satellite carriers are expected to seamlessly replace stations analog signals with digital signals. in march 2008, the fcc decided that its carry one, carry all policy also applies to local stations hd dtv signals; however, satellite carriers may phase in the carriage of all hd dtv signals in a dma over a four year period beginning in february 2010. legislation enacted in 1990 limits the amount of commercial matter that may be broadcast during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. in addition, under fcc license renewal processing guidelines, television stations are generally required to broadcast a minimum of three hours per week of programming, which, among other requirements, must serve, as a significant purpose, the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and under. a television station found not to have complied with the programming requirements or commercial limitations could face sanctions, including monetary fines and the possible non-renewal of its license. fcc rules prohibit the broadcast by television and radio stations of indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. beginning in march 2004, the fcc implemented a new policy regarding this prohibition and generally stepped up its enforcement of indecency violations. under the new policy, the single use of certain forbidden expletives, or variations of those expletives, were deemed indecent and profane. the fcc also warned broadcasters that serious multiple violations of the indecency prohibition could lead to license revocation proceedings, and that fines could be imposed for each incident in a single broadcast. under the new fcc policy, both complaints about indecency and fcc enforcement actions have increased, and several complaints alleging the broadcast of alleged indecent or profane material by fox television stations are pending at the fcc. on march 15, 2006, the fcc determined that the 2002 and 2003 billboard music awards programs, both live broadcasts on fox, violated the prohibitions against indecent and profane broadcasts because they contained isolated uses of the forbidden expletives (the march 15 order ). however, since these broadcasts preceded the fcc march 2004 policy, no forfeiture or other penalty was imposed. nonetheless, in april 2006, fox television stations appealed the march 15 order to the second circuit court of appeals (the second circuit ). on june 4, 2007, the second circuit granted fox appeal, vacating the fcc decision in the billboard music awards cases as well as the fcc new policy on fleeting expletives in its entirety on the grounds that both were arbitrary and capricious. the united states obtained review by the u.s. supreme court, which reversed the second circuit decision and remanded the case back to the second circuit for consideration of the constitutional issues that had been raised before but not yet decided by that court. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the second circuit action on this case or its effect on the company. 25 table of contents on february 22, 2008, the fcc issued an order imposing forfeitures of $7,000 each on 13 fox affiliates, including five stations owned and operated by the company, on the grounds that an april 7, 2003 episode of the program married by america violated the prohibition against indecent broadcasts. on april 4, 2008, the united states commenced an action in federal district court in the district of columbia against the five company-owned stations to collect the forfeitures imposed by the fcc. one of the stations, wdaf-tv, subsequently paid the $7,000 forfeiture and was dismissed from the case in connection with the sale of that station by the company to oak hill capital partners in july 2008. the company moved to dismiss the suit on several grounds, including that the fcc forfeiture order is unconstitutional. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of this case or its effect on the company. on june 15, 2006, the broadcast decency enforcement act was signed into law. this law raises the maximum amount the fcc can impose for a violation of the prohibition against indecent and profane broadcasts from $32,500 to $325,000 per incident. some members of congress have supported extending the indecency rules applicable to free-to-air broadcasters to cable and satellite programming, and/or requiring multichannel video program distributions ( mvpd ) to provide their subscribers with the option of purchasing programming on a channel by channel (or &agrave; la carte) basis or to provide them with a family-friendly program tier without obligating the subscriber to purchase any other programming channels or tiers. modifications to the company programming to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on the competitive position of fox television stations and fox. if indecency regulation is extended to cable and satellite programming, and such extension was found to be constitutional, some of the company cable programming services could be subject to additional regulation that might affect subscription and viewership levels. regulation requiring &agrave; la carte or family-friendly program options might decrease the distribution of the company cable services and increase their marketing expenses, which could affect results of operations. the fcc continues to enforce strictly its regulations concerning political advertising, children television, environmental concerns, equal employment opportunity, technical operating matters and antenna tower maintenance. fcc rules require the closed captioning of almost all broadcast and cable programming. although not required by fcc regulation, the company has committed to provide program ratings information for its broadcast network programming for use in conjunction with v chip technology, a technology that blocks the display of television programming based on its rating. fcc regulations governing network affiliation agreements mandate that television broadcast station licensees retain the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance. violation of fcc regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, periodic reporting conditions, short-term license renewals and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of license. asia . star broadcasts television programming over a footprint covering approximately 53 countries. government regulation of direct reception and redistribution via cable or other means of satellite television signals, where it is addressed at all, is treated differently throughout star footprint. at one extreme are absolute bans on private ownership of satellite receiving equipment. some countries, however, have adopted a less restrictive approach, opting to allow ownership of satellite receiving equipment by certain institutions and individuals but allowing them to receive only authorized broadcasts. at the opposite end of the spectrum are countries where private satellite dish ownership is allowed and laws and regulations have been adopted which support popular access to satellite services through local cable redistribution. most television services within star footprint, whether free-to-air or pay television, are also subject to licensing requirements, although these requirements are imposed on the local broadcast operators who collect the subscription fees rather than on program suppliers, such as star, which license local broadcast operators to 26 table of contents receive their programming. in addition, most countries in star footprint control the content offered by local broadcast operators through censorship requirements to which program suppliers, such as star, are subject. certain countries also impose obligations to carry government-operated or terrestrial channels or require a minimum percentage of local content. other countries require local broadcast operators to obtain government approval to retransmit foreign programming. most countries within star footprint, including in star primary markets (india, indonesia and greater china), have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. india. in india, private satellite dish ownership, including dth, is allowed. television viewers receive broadcast television signals primarily through terrestrial and cable delivery and, in more recent years, through dth delivery. terrestrial broadcasting remains the domain of government-owned broadcast stations. in september 2008, the indian government liberalized regulations to allow broadcasters to provide signals to iptv operators. all cable television operators are required to carry certain government-operated channels. retransmissions of foreign satellite channels, such as star channels in india, are permitted, subject to licensing requirements and compliance with local applicable laws, including censorship codes. the indian government also places certain restrictions on advertising and requires that certain media, whether produced in india or abroad, must be certified by the central board of film certification prior to exhibition in india. limits are imposed by the indian government on the increase in the year-on-year prices payable by cable operators to broadcasters for certain channels, including certain star channels. in addition, maximum retail prices have been mandated for different categories of cities. in certain metropolitan areas, viewers are required to buy or rent a set-top-box from cable operators to access pay television channels, which allows viewers to choose the pay television channels they wish to subscribe to on an &agrave; la carte basis, rather than on a bundled basis. further, cable operators are required to provide a pay television channel at a capped retail price, of which the broadcasters share is restricted to 45%. broadcasters and cable operators must execute standard format agreements regarding the provision of television signals in certain metropolitan areas. there is no tariff regulation for dth; however, broadcasters are required to offer their channels to dth platforms at 50% of the rates charged to analogue cable operators. broadcasters such as star are required to publish basic distribution terms specifying the bouquet and &agrave; la carte rates within a price matrix formula to enable the distributors to take channels at their discretion. broadcasters are also required to provide their channels on non-discriminatory terms to all distributors if no carriage charges are being sought from broadcasters. china. in mainland china, private satellite dish ownership is prohibited except with special approval for hotels, government and foreign institutions that can receive only authorized broadcasts. local cable and free-to-air terrestrial operators are required to broadcast a minimum percentage of local content and retransmission of foreign satellite channels by local operators is prohibited except with special approval. taiwan. in taiwan, private satellite dish ownership is allowed. the maximum subscription fee chargeable by cable television operators is set by both the national and local governments. cable television operators offer analog basic channels in a single package and digital premium channels in packages or on an &agrave; la carte basis as a buy through to their basic analog service. all channels offered in taiwan must be licensed. retransmission of foreign satellite programming by local cable operators is permitted, but local cable operators are also required to carry terrestrial channels and broadcast a minimum percentage of local content. additional categories of regulation of actual or potential significance to star within its footprint are restrictions on foreign investment in platform, television programming, production or channel businesses, uplink-downlink licensing regulations, content protection under copyright or communications law, limitations on exclusive arrangements for channel distribution and non-discrimination requirements for supply or carriage of programming. 27 table of contents cable network programming fcc regulations adopted pursuant to the 1992 cable act (the program access rules ) prevent a cable operator that has an attributable interest (including voting or non-voting stock ownership of 5% or more or limited partnership equity interests of 5% or more) in a programming vendor from exercising undue or improper influence over the vendor in its dealings with competitors to cable. the program access rules also prohibit a cable programmer in which a cable operator has an attributable interest from entering into exclusive contracts with any cable operator or from discriminating among competing mvpds in the price, terms and conditions of sale or delivery of programming. the cable networks operated by the company are not currently subject to the program access rules. program access conditions in connection with its approval of the transfer of licenses controlled by directv to the company in 2003, the fcc imposed several conditions relating to the carriage and availability of its broadcast and cable programming services. all the conditions terminated when the company divested its interest in directv in february 2008 except for the commercial arbitration condition, which required the company to enter into commercial arbitration if negotiations with an mvpd over retransmission consent for its television stations signals and/or carriage of the regional sports networks it owns, controls or manages, reached an impasse. the company asked the fcc for immediate termination of the arbitration condition on the grounds it was no longer necessary in light of the company divestiture of its interest in directv. the fcc granted the company request and terminated the commercial arbitration condition effective june 15, 2009. internet the children online privacy protection act of 1998 ( coppa ) prohibits websites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. the controlling the assault of non-solicited pornography and marketing act of 2003 ( can-spam ) regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or spam. online services provided by the company may be subject to coppa and can-spam requirements. congress and some state legislatures are considering legislation that would regulate how businesses operate on the internet, including measures relating to privacy and data security, as well as specific legislation aimed at social networking sites, such as myspace.com. members of congress have announced they will introduce legislation that would regulate the collection of data about consumers web browsing activities across the internet that is used to serve targeted advertising. in addition, in february 2009, the ftc staff released guidelines for internet publishers (such as myspace.com) and internet advertising networks (such as fox audience network) to address concerns about consumer privacy, transparency and control raised by such collection and use of online behavioral data, and called for self-regulation. on july 3, 2009, the industry released a set of self-regulatory online behavioral advertising principles. it is unclear whether these industry efforts alone will address the concerns expressed by some federal and state officials. the effect of possible privacy and data security legislation on the company business cannot be determined. some foreign governments are raising similar safety, security and privacy concerns. in particular, the european union ( eu ) is actively evaluating the privacy implications of online behavioral data collection and usage. different policy options, including new regulations, are being considered at both the eu and member state levels. most of this activity is in its early stages and it is therefore unclear how any government action would affect the company business. the company monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments. 28 table of contents raw materials as a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. in order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the company paper purchasing is done on a centralized, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. the company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate. intellectual property the company intellectual property assets include: copyrights in motion pictures, television programming, newspapers, books, magazines, websites and technologies; trademarks in names, logos and characters; domain names; patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds. the company derives value from these assets through the theatrical release of films and the production, distribution and/or licensing of its films and television programming to domestic and international television and cable networks, pay television services, pay-per-view, video-on-demand services and direct-to-home satellite services, operation of websites, and through the sale of products, such as dvds, books, newspapers and magazines, among others. the company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property in the united states and other key foreign territories. to protect these assets, the company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and internet/domain name statutes and laws and contract provisions. however, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the company intellectual property. the company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives, deploying digital rights management technologies, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property. third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the company intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the company operations. moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. therefore, the company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement. item 1a. risk factors prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set forth below before making an investment in the company securities. global economic conditions may have a continuing adverse effect on the company business. the united states and global economies are undergoing a period of economic uncertainty, which has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, limited access to the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending and lower consumer net worth. the resulting pressure on the labor and retail markets and the downturn in consumer confidence has weakened the economic climate in certain markets in which the company does business and has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the company business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. a continued decline in these economic conditions could further impact the company business, 29 table of contents reduce the company advertising and other revenues and negatively impact the performance of its motion pictures and home entertainment releases, television operations, newspapers, books and other consumer products. in addition, these conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom the company does business to satisfy their obligations to the company. as a result, the company results of operations may continue to be adversely affected. although the company believes that its operating cash flow and current access to capital and credit markets, including the company existing credit facility, will give it the ability to meet its financial needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair the company liquidity or increase its cost of borrowing. a decline in advertising expenditures could cause the company revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on or in its television stations, broadcast and cable networks, newspapers, inserts, websites and dbs services. expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. a decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. demand for the company products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. for example, ratings points for the company television stations, broadcast and cable networks and circulation levels for the company newspapers are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates, and with respect to the company television stations and broadcast and television networks, when determining the affiliate rates received by the company. in addition, newer technologies, including new video formats, streaming and downloading capabilities via the internet, video-on-demand, personal video recorders and other devices and technologies are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences. some of these devices and technologies allow users to view television or motion pictures from a remote location or on a time-delayed basis and provide users the ability to fast-forward, rewind, pause and skip programming. these technological developments are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences and may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the company offerings to viewers, advertisers and/or distributors. a decrease in advertising expenditures or reduced demand for the company offerings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the company businesses. acceptance of the company film and television programming by the public is difficult to predict, which could lead to fluctuations in revenues. feature film and television production and distribution are speculative businesses since the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a feature film or television series depend primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. the commercial success of a feature film or television series also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing films and television series released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of a growing number of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and their effects on consumer spending and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. further, the theatrical success of a feature film and the audience ratings for a television series are generally key factors in generating revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and premium pay television, with respect to feature films, and syndication, with respect to television series. the company could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets (including fcc licenses) and programming. in accordance with applicable gaap, the company performs an annual impairment assessment of its recorded goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including fcc licenses, during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. the company also continually evaluates whether current factors or indicators, such as the prevailing conditions in the capital markets, require the performance of an interim impairment assessment of 30 table of contents those assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets. management believes that recent trends in the reduced growth in advertising revenues and the decline in profit margins in some of the company advertising-based businesses and valuations of its television stations, newspapers, and other advertising-based companies have negatively affected investors outlooks on the company market value. any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or the expected popularity of the programming for which the company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of certain reporting units, particularly the newspapers and information services and the television reporting units. a downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit, indefinite-lived intangible assets, investments or long-lived assets could result in an impairment and a non-cash charge would be required. any such charge could be material to the company reported net earnings. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could have an adverse effect on the company results of operations. the company has significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of the company operations are conducted in foreign currencies. the value of these currencies fluctuate relative to the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations in a given period or in specific markets. the loss of carriage agreements could cause the company revenue and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with third party owned television stations, and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to the company. the loss of a significant number of these affiliation arrangements could reduce the distribution of fox and mynetworktv and adversely affect the company ability to sell national advertising time. similarly, the company cable networks maintain affiliation and carriage arrangements that enable them to reach a large percentage of cable and direct broadcast satellite households across the united states. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the company cable networks, which may adversely affect those networks revenues from subscriber fees and their ability to sell national and local advertising time. the inability to renew sports programming rights could cause the company advertising revenue to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the sports rights contracts between the company, on the one hand, and various professional sports leagues and teams, on the other, have varying duration and renewal terms. as these contracts expire, renewals on favorable terms may be sought; however, third parties may outbid the current rights holders for the rights contracts. in addition, professional sports leagues or teams may create their own networks or the renewal costs could substantially exceed the original contract cost. the loss of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by the company and its affiliates, as it relates to fox, and could adversely affect the company advertising and affiliate revenues. upon renewal, the company results could be adversely affected if escalations in sports programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in advertising rates and, in the case of cable networks, subscriber fees. technological developments may increase the threat of content piracy and signal theft and limit the company ability to protect its intellectual property rights. the company seeks to limit the threat of content piracy and dbs programming signal theft; however, policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken by the company may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties. developments in technology, including digital copying, file compressing and the growing penetration of high-bandwidth internet connections, increase the threat of content piracy by making it easier to duplicate and 31 table of contents widely distribute pirated material. in addition, developments in software or devices that circumvent encryption technology increase the threat of unauthorized use and distribution of dbs programming signals. the company has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy and signal theft, both individually and, in some instances, together with industry associations. there can be no assurance that the company efforts to enforce its rights and protect its products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy or signal theft. content piracy and signal theft present a threat to the company revenues from products and services, including, but not limited to, films, television shows, books and dbs programming. labor disputes may have an adverse effect on the company business. in a variety of the company businesses, the company and its partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements, including employees of the company film and television studio operations and newspapers. if the company or its partners are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, certain of which are expiring within the next year or so, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute could have an adverse effect on the company business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins. changes in u.s. or foreign regulations may have an adverse effect on the company business. the company is subject to a variety of u.s. and foreign regulations in the jurisdictions in which its businesses operate. in general, the television broadcasting and multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the united states are highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc generally regulates, among other things, the ownership of media, broadcast and multichannel video programming and technical operations of broadcast and satellite licensees. further, the united states congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters, including technological changes, which could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of the company u.s. media properties. similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which the company, or entities in which the company has an interest, operate could adversely affect its business and results of operations. in addition, changes in tax regulations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions in which the company has operations could affect the company results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has exposure to several types of market risk: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and stock prices. the company neither holds nor issues financial instruments for trading purposes. the following sections provide quantitative information on the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and stock price risk. the company makes use of sensitivity analyses that are inherently limited in estimating actual losses in fair value that can occur from changes in market conditions. foreign currency exchange rates the company conducts operations in four principal currencies: the u.s. dollar, the british pound sterling, the euro and the australian dollar. these currencies operate as the functional currency for the company u.s., european (including the united kingdom) and australian operations, respectively. cash is managed centrally within each of the three regions with net earnings reinvested locally and working capital requirements met from existing liquid funds. to the extent such funds are not sufficient to meet working capital requirements; drawdowns in the appropriate local currency are available from intercompany borrowings. since earnings of the company australian and european (including the united kingdom) operations are expected to be reinvested in those businesses indefinitely, the company does not hedge its investment in the net assets of those foreign operations. at june 30, 2009, the company outstanding financial instruments with foreign currency exchange rate risk exposure had an aggregate fair value of $165 million (including the company non-u.s. dollar-denominated fixed rate debt). the potential increase in the fair values of these instruments resulting from a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately $19.2 million at june 30, 2009. interest rates the company current financing arrangements and facilities include $14.3 billion of outstanding debt with fixed interest and the credit agreement, which carries variable interest. fixed and variable rate debts are impacted differently by changes in interest rates. a change in the interest rate or yield of fixed rate debt will only impact the fair market value of such debt, while a change in the interest rate of variable debt will impact interest expense, as well as the amount of cash required to service such debt. as of june 30, 2009, substantially all of the company financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk were denominated in u.s. dollars and had an aggregate fair value of $13.5 billion. the potential change in fair market value for these financial instruments from an adverse 10% change in quoted interest rates across all maturities, often referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve, would be approximately $776 million at june 30, 2009. stock prices the company has common stock investments in several publicly traded companies that are subject to market price volatility. these investments principally represent the company equity affiliates and had an aggregate fair value of approximately $6.5 billion as of june 30, 2009. a hypothetical decrease in the market price of these investments of 10% would result in a fair value of approximately $5.8 billion. such a hypothetical decrease would result in a before tax decrease in comprehensive income of approximately $15 million, as any changes in fair value of the company equity affiliates are not recognized unless deemed other-than-temporary, as these investments are accounted for under the equity method. in accordance with sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, the company has recorded the conversion feature embedded in its exchangeable debentures in other liabilities. at june 30, 2009, the fair value of this conversion feature was nil and this conversion feature is sensitive to movements in the share price of one of the company publicly traded equity affiliates. a significant variance in the price of the underlying stock could have a material impact on the operating results of the company. 77 table of contents credit risk the company receivables do not represent significant concentrations of credit risk at june 30, 2009 or 2008 due to the wide variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the company products and services are sold; however, in light of the recent turmoil in the domestic and global economies, the company estimates and judgments with respect to the collectibility of its receivables have become subject to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods. the company monitors its positions with, and the credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. at june 30, 2009, the company did not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties. 78 table of contentsrisk factors 28 risk factors in this annual report. the company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the company with the sec. this section should be read together with the consolidated financial statements of news corporation and related notes set forth elsewhere in this annual report. business overview the company is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in the eight segments described below. filmed entertainment the company engages in the production and acquisition of live-action and animated motion pictures for distribution and licensing in all formats in all entertainment media worldwide, and the production and licensing of television programming worldwide. feature film production and distribution one of the world largest producers and distributors of motion pictures, fox filmed entertainment ( ffe ) produces, acquires and distributes motion pictures throughout the world under a variety of arrangements. during fiscal 2010, ffe placed 25 motion pictures in general release in the united states. the motion pictures of ffe 2 table of contents are produced and/or distributed by the following units of ffe: twentieth century fox and fox 2000, which produce and acquire motion pictures for mainstream audiences; fox searchlight pictures, which produces and acquires specialized motion pictures; and twentieth century fox animation, which produces feature length animated motion pictures. in addition, fox international productions, inc. co-produces and co-finances local-language motion pictures for distribution outside the united states. the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by ffe in the united states and international territories in fiscal 2010 included avatar, ice age: dawn of the dinosaurs, alvin and the chipmunks: the squeakquel, fantastic mr. fox, date night, the a-team, (500) days of summer and crazy heart . ffe has already released or currently plans to release approximately 25 motion pictures in the united states in fiscal 2011, including predators, wall street: money never sleeps, unstoppable, the chronicles of narnia: the voyage of the dawn treader, rio, x-men: first class, rise of the apes, 127 hours, the descendants and cedar rapids. pursuant to an agreement with monarchy enterprises holdings b.v. ( meh ), the parent company of new regency in which the company has a 20% interest, and certain of meh subsidiaries, ffe distributes certain new regency films and all films co-financed by ffe and new regency in all media worldwide, excluding a number of international territories with respect to television rights. among its fiscal 2011 releases, ffe currently expects to distribute four films either fully financed by new regency or co-financed by ffe and new regency. motion picture companies, such as ffe, typically seek to generate revenues from various distribution channels. ffe derives its worldwide motion picture revenues primarily from four basic sources (set forth in general chronology of exploitation): (i) distribution of motion pictures for theatrical exhibition in the united states and canada and markets outside of the united states and canada ( international markets); (ii) distribution of motion pictures in various home media formats; (iii) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on pay-per-view, video-on-demand and premium pay television programming services; and (iv) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on free television networks, other broadcast program services, independent television stations and basic cable programming services, including certain services which are affiliates of the company. the company does not always have rights in all media of exhibition to all motion pictures that it releases, and does not necessarily distribute a given motion picture in all of the foregoing media in all markets. the company believes that the pre-release marketing of a feature film is an integral part of its motion picture distribution strategy and generally begins marketing efforts three to six months in advance of a film release date in any given territory. the company markets and distributes its films worldwide principally through its own distribution and marketing companies. through twentieth century fox home entertainment lcc, the company distributes motion pictures and other programming produced by units of ffe, its affiliates and other producers in the united states, canada and international markets in all home media formats, including the sale and rental of dvds. in fiscal 2010, the domestic home entertainment division released or re-released approximately 1,131 produced and acquired titles, including 22 new ffe film releases, approximately 802 catalog titles and approximately 307 television and non-theatrical titles. in international markets, the company distributed, produced and acquired titles both directly and through foreign distribution channels, with approximately 910 releases in fiscal 2010, including approximately 23 new ffe film releases, approximately 695 catalog titles and approximately 192 television and non-theatrical releases. in fiscal 2010, the company continued its worldwide home video distribution arrangement with metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ), releasing approximately 1,207 and 714 mgm home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs domestically and internationally, respectively, as well as its domestic home video distribution arrangement with lions gate, releasing approximately 1,909 lions gate home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs. during fiscal 2010, the domestic home entertainment division released 201 blu-ray high definition ( hd ) disc format ( blu-ray ) titles, including 21 new ffe film releases, 155 catalog titles and 25 television and non-theatrical releases. in international markets, the company released 149 blu-ray titles, including 18 new ffe film releases and 131 catalog titles. the company also distributed 75 blu-ray titles (two new releases and 73 catalog titles) from mgm domestically and 47 titles (one new release and 46 catalog titles) internationally, and 126 blu-ray titles from lions gate domestically. 3 table of contents units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs in the united states, canada and international markets to various third party and certain affiliated subscription pay television, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services. the license agreements reflecting the subscription pay television arrangements generally provide for a specified number of exhibitions of the program during a fixed term in exchange for a license fee that is based on a variety of factors, including the box office performance of each program and the number of subscribers to the service or system. among third party license agreements that units of ffe have in place in the united states for television exhibition of their motion pictures are exclusive subscription pay television license agreements with home box office, inc. ( hbo ), providing for the licensing of films initially released for theatrical exhibition through 2015, as well as arrangements with starz encore group. the license agreements reflecting the pay-per-view and video-on-demand services arrangements generally provide for a license fee based on a percentage of the licensee gross receipts from the exhibition of the program, and in some cases, a guaranteed minimum fee. in addition, these agreements generally provide for a minimum number of scheduled pay-per-view exhibitions and a minimum video-on-demand exhibition period during a fixed term. units of ffe also license motion pictures in the united states to direct broadcast satellite ( dbs ) pay-per-view services operated by echostar communications corporation, as well as to pay-per-view and video-on-demand services operated by directv and in demand l.l.c. in addition, units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs to third parties, including apple inc. ( apple ) and amazon.com inc., for electronic sell-through over the internet, enabling consumers in the united states to acquire the right to retain permanently such programs. in international markets, units of ffe license motion pictures and other programming to leading third party pay television, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services, as well as to pay television and video-on-demand services operated by various affiliated entities. competition . motion picture production and distribution are highly competitive businesses. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. the number of motion pictures released by the company competitors, particularly the other major film studios, in any given period may create an oversupply of product in the market, which may reduce the company shares of gross box office admissions and may make it more difficult for the company motion pictures to succeed. the commercial success of the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by the company is affected substantially by the public unpredictable response to them. the competitive risks affecting the company home entertainment business include the number of home entertainment titles released by the company competitors that may create an oversupply of product in the market, competition among home media formats, such as dvds, and other methods of distribution, such as video-on-demand services. the company faces ongoing risks associated with controlling unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs. for a further discussion of issues relating to unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs, see intellectual property. television programming, production and distribution twentieth century fox television ( tcftv ) . during fiscal 2010, tcftv produced television programs for the fox broadcasting company ( fox ), fx networks, llc ( fx ), abc television network ( abc ), cbs broadcasting, inc. ( cbs ), nbc television network ( nbc ), comedy partners ( comedy central ), turner broadcasting system, inc. ( tbs ) and arts &amp; entertainment network ( a&amp;e ). tcftv currently produces, or has orders to produce, episodes of the following television series: american dad , bob burgers , bones , the cleveland show , family guy , glee , lie to me , lone star , raising hope , ride-along , the simpsons , traffic light and terra nova for fox; sons of anarchy and terriers for fx; modern family for abc; chaos and how i met your mother for cbs; friends with benefits for nbc; futurama for comedy central; neighbors from hell for tbs and breakout kings for a&amp;e. generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes for exhibition on the network during the license period. all other distribution rights, including international and off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by tcftv, utilized by other units of the company or sold to third parties. 4 table of contents television programs generally are produced under contracts that provide for license fees that may cover only a portion of the anticipated production costs. as these costs have increased in recent years, the resulting deficit between production costs and license fees for domestic first-run programming also has increased. therefore, additional licensing is often critical to the financial success of a series. successful u.s. network television series are, for example, (i) licensed for first-run exhibition in canadian and international markets, (ii) released in dvd box sets, (iii) licensed for off-network exhibition in the united states (including in syndication and to cable programmers), (iv) licensed for further television exhibition in international markets and (v) made available for electronic sell-through and streaming, including individual episodes and full series. typically, a series must be broadcast for at least three to four television seasons for there to be a sufficient number of episodes to offer the series in syndication or to cable and dbs programmers in the united states. the decision of a television network to continue a series through an entire television season or to renew a series for another television season depends largely on the series audience ratings. twentieth television. twentieth television licenses both television programming and feature films for domestic syndication to television stations and basic cable services in the united states. twentieth television distributes a program portfolio that includes the company library of television and film assets, and first-run programming produced by its production companies for sales to local stations, including stations owned and operated by the company, as well as to basic cable networks. first-run programs distributed by twentieth television include: the game shows are you smarter than a 5 th grader? and don t forget the lyrics! ; the court shows divorce court and judge alex ; and the 2010 summer test series, the kilborn file hosted by craig kilborn. twentieth television derives revenue from off-network, theatrical and first-run program sales in the form of cash license fees paid by both broadcast and cable licensees, and from the sales of national advertising units retained by twentieth television in its programs. twentieth television licenses such shows as how i met your mother , it always sunny in philadelphia , my name is earl , family guy , american dad, king of the hill, the unit, m*a*s*h, boston legal, bones, malcolm in the middle and the simpsons to cable and broadcast networks. twentieth television also manages and distributes the long running series, cops and america most wanted , and sells national advertising on behalf of other third party syndicators. fox television studios ( ftvs ) . ftvs is a program supplier to the major u.s. and international broadcast and cable networks. ftvs is currently producing the series burn notice and white collar for usa network, the good guys for fox, the gates for abc, the glades for a&amp;e, lights out for fx and kendra, holly world and the girls next door for e!. other ftvs international co-productions include persons unknown , co-produced with televisa for nbc. competition . similar to motion picture production and distribution, production and distribution of television programming is extremely competitive. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. in addition, television networks have affiliated production companies from which they are increasingly obtaining their programming, which has reduced the demand for programming from other non-affiliated parties. motion picture and television library the company motion picture and television library (the fox library ) consists of varying rights to several thousand previously released motion pictures and many well-known television programs. motion pictures in the fox library include many successful and well-known titles, such as the sound of music , mrs. doubtfire , dr. dolittle , home alone , the star wars series, the x-men series, independence day, the day after tomorrow , the ice age series, sideways , walk the line , the devil wears prada , little miss sunshine , the night at the museum series, the alvin and the chipmunks series, slumdog millionaire and taken, as well as seven of the top 30 domestic box office grossing films of all time, which are avatar , titanic (together with paramount pictures corporation), star wars , star wars episode i: the phantom menace , star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith , star wars episode ii: attack of the clones and star wars episode vi: return of the jedi . 5 table of contents the fox library contains varying rights to many television series and made-for-television motion pictures. the television programming in the fox library consists of such classic series as 24 , king of the hill , prison break , boston legal, my name is earl, the mary tyler moore show , m*a*s*h , hill street blues , doogie howser, m.d. , l.a. law , the wonder years , the practice , ally mcbeal , angel , dharma &amp; greg , in living color , the x-files , buffy the vampire slayer and nypd blue , as well as prior seasons of such current series as the simpsons , bones , family guy , the cleveland show , glee , modern family , futurama , how i met your mother , sons of anarchy , american dad and lie to me . television the company is engaged in the operation of broadcast television stations and the broadcasting of network programming in the united states. fox television stations fox television stations, inc. ( fox television stations ) owns and operates 27 full power stations, including stations located in nine of the top ten largest designated market areas ( dmas ). fox television stations owns and operates two stations in nine dmas, including new york, los angeles and chicago, the first, second and third largest dmas, respectively. of the 27 full power stations, 17 stations are affiliates of fox ( fox affiliates ). for a description of the programming offered to fox affiliates, see fox broadcasting company. in addition, fox television stations owns and operates ten stations affiliated with mynetworktv programming distribution service, inc. ( mynetworktv ). 6 table of contents the following table lists certain information about each of the television stations owned and operated by fox television stations. unless otherwise noted, all stations are fox affiliates. fox television stations (1) dma/rank station digital channel (former analog channel) (2) type percentage of u.s. television households reached (3) new york, ny 1 wnyw 44 (5 ) uhf 6.5 % wwor (4) 38 (9 ) uhf los angeles, ca 2 kttv 11 (11 ) vhf 4.9 % kcop (4) 13 (13 ) vhf chicago, il 3 wfld 31 (32 ) uhf 3.0 % wpwr (4) 51 (50 ) uhf philadelphia, pa 4 wtxf 42 (29 ) uhf 2.6 % dallas, tx 5 kdfw 35 (4 ) uhf 2.2 % kdfi (4) 36 (27 ) uhf boston, ma 7 wfxt 31 (25 ) uhf 2.1 % atlanta, ga 8 waga 27 (5 ) uhf 2.1 % washington, dc 9 wttg 36 (5 ) uhf 2.0 % wdca (4) 35 (20 ) uhf houston, tx 10 kriv 26 (26 ) uhf 1.8 % ktxh (4) 19 (20 ) uhf detroit, mi 11 wjbk 7 (2 ) vhf 1.6 % phoenix, az 12 ksaz 10 (10 ) vhf 1.6 % kutp (4) 26 (45 ) uhf tampa, fl 14 wtvt 12 (13 ) vhf 1.6 % minneapolis, mn (5) 15 kmsp 9 (9 ) vhf 1.5 % wftc (4) 29 (29 ) uhf orlando, fl 19 wofl 22 (35 ) uhf 1.3 % wrbw (4) 41 (65 ) uhf baltimore, md 27 wutb (4) 41 (24 ) uhf 1.0 % austin, tx 48 ktbc 7 (7 ) vhf 0.6 % memphis, tn 50 whbq 13 (13 ) vhf 0.6 % gainesville, fl 160 wogx 31 (51 ) uhf 0.1 % total 37.1 % source: nielsen media research, january 2010 (1) the information presented in the table above reflects the 2009 conversion of fox television stations to all-digital broadcasts. for more information on the transition to digital broadcast, see regulation television. (2) this column shows both the actual digital channel on which the fox television stations broadcast, as well as the analog channel (now called the virtual channel) on which they broadcast in the past. digital television receivers and set-top boxes will display the virtual channel (e.g., channel 5 for wnyw) as the channel being received and the fox television stations generally use the virtual channel for on-air branding. (3) vhf television stations transmit on channels 2 through 13 and uhf television stations on channels 14 through 51. the federal communications commission (the fcc ) applies a discount (the uhf discount ) which attributes only 50% of the television households in a local television market to the audience reach of a uhf television station for purposes of calculating whether that station owner complies with the national station ownership cap imposed by fcc regulations and by statute; in making this calculation, only the station actual (digital) broadcast channel is considered. in addition, the coverage of two commonly owned stations in the same market is counted only once. the percentages listed are rounded and do not take into account the uhf discount. for more information regarding the fcc national station ownership cap, see regulation television in this annual report. (4) mynetworktv affiliate. (5) the company also owns and operates kftc, channel 26, bemidji, mn as a satellite station of wftc, channel 29, minneapolis, mn. 7 table of contents fox broadcasting company ( fox ) fox has 203 fox affiliates, including the 17 stations owned and operated by the company, which reach approximately 99% of all u.s. television households. in general, each week fox regularly delivers to its affiliates 15 hours of prime-time programming and 90 minutes of late-night programming on saturday. fox prime-time programming features such series as house , the simpsons , bones , fringe and glee ; unscripted series such as american idol and so you think you can dance ; and various specials. in addition, a significant component of fox programming consists of sports programming, with fox providing to its affiliates live coverage (including post-season) of the national football conference of the national football league (the nfl ) and major league baseball ( mlb ), as well as live coverage of the sprint cup series of the national association of stock car auto racing ( nascar ). in fiscal 2011, fox will broadcast the pro bowl and super bowl xlv. fox also airs a two-hour block of direct response programming on saturday mornings provided by worldlink ventures ( worldlink ), a media sales firm. fox agreement with worldlink extends through the 2010-2011 broadcast season. fox prime-time line-up is intended to appeal primarily to target audiences of 18 to 49-year old adults, the demographic group that advertisers seek to reach most often. during the 2009-2010 traditional september to may broadcast season, fox ranked first in prime-time programming based on viewership of adults ages 18 to 49 (based on live+7 ratings, fox had a 3.7 rating and a 10 share, abc had a 2.7 rating and an 7 share, cbs had a 3.2 rating and a 9 share and nbc had a 2.7 rating and a 7 share). the median age of the fox viewer is 45 years, as compared to 49 years for nbc, 50 years for abc and 53 years for cbs. fox obtains programming from major television studios and independent television production companies pursuant to license agreements. the terms of those agreements generally provide fox with the right to broadcast a television series for a minimum of four seasons. national sports programming, such as the nfl, mlb and nascar programming, is obtained under license agreements with professional sports leagues or organizations. fox current licenses with the nfl, mlb and nascar extend until the 2013 nfl season, the 2013 mlb season and the 2014 nascar season. in addition, foxsports.com provides a comprehensive mix of news, exclusive analysis, fantasy games and one of the internet largest collections of online sports video. foxsports.com on msn had an average of 26 million unique users and 930 million page views in the united states during june 2010 according to comscore media metrix. fox provides programming to the fox affiliates in accordance with affiliation agreements of varying durations, which grant to each affiliate the right to broadcast network television programming on the affiliated station. such agreements typically run three or more years and have staggered expiration dates. these affiliation agreements generally require fox affiliates to carry fox programming in all time periods in which fox programming is offered to those affiliates, subject to certain exceptions stated in the affiliation agreements. mynetworktv at the beginning of the 2009-2010 television season, mynetworktv transitioned to a new programming distribution service model distributing two hours per night of original and off-network programming for twentieth television and other third party syndicators to its affiliates. as of june 30, 2010, mynetworktv had 173 affiliates, including 10 affiliates owned by the company, reaching approximately 94% of u.s. households. competition. the network television broadcasting business is highly competitive. fox and mynetworktv compete with other broadcast networks, such as abc, nbc, cbs and the cw television network, independent television stations, cable and dbs program services, as well as other media, including dvds, digital video recorders ( dvr ), video games, print and the internet for audiences, programming and, in the case of fox, advertising revenues. in addition, fox and mynetworktv compete with other broadcast networks and other programming distribution services to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations in markets 8 table of contents across the united states. abc, nbc and cbs each broadcasts a significantly greater number of hours of programming than fox and, accordingly, may be able to designate or change time periods in which programming is to be broadcast with greater flexibility than fox. in addition, future technological developments may affect competition within the television marketplace. each of the stations owned and operated by fox television stations also competes for advertising revenues with other television stations and radio and cable systems in its respective market area and with other advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail and internet websites. all of the stations owned and operated by fox television stations are located in highly competitive markets. additional elements that are material to the competitive position of each of the television stations include management experience, authorized power and assigned frequency of that station. competition for sales of broadcast advertising time is based primarily on the anticipated and actually delivered size and demographic characteristics of audiences as determined by various rating services, price, the time of day when the advertising is to be broadcast, competition from the other broadcast networks, cable television systems, dbs services and other media and general economic conditions. competition for audiences is based primarily on the selection of programming, the acceptance of which is dependent on the reaction of the viewing public that is often difficult to predict. cable network programming the company produces and licenses news, business news, sports, general entertainment and movie programming for distribution through cable television systems and direct broadcast satellite operators in the united states and internationally. fox news . fox news owns and operates the fox news channel, a 24-hour all news national cable channel currently available to over 98 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research, as well as the fox business network which is currently available to over 56 million u.s. households. fox news also produces a weekend political commentary show, fox news sunday , for broadcast on local fox television stations throughout the united states. fox news, through its fox news edge service, licenses news feeds to fox affiliates and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts throughout the united states and abroad. fox news also produces and runs the websites, foxnews.com and foxbusiness.com, and owns and produces the national fox news radio network, which licenses news updates, long form programs and the fox news talk channel to local radio stations and to satellite radio providers. fsn . fox sports net, inc. ( fsn, inc. ) is the largest regional sports network ( rsn ) programmer in the united states, focusing on live professional and major collegiate home team sports events. fsn, inc. sports programming business currently consists primarily of ownership interests in 12 rsns, including numerous sub-regional feeds (the fsn rsns ) and national sports programming, which operates fsn ( fsn ), a national sports programming service. fsn, inc. also is affiliated with, through fsn, an additional nine rsns that are not owned by fsn, inc. (the fsn affiliated rsns ). fsn provides the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns with national sports programming, featuring original and licensed sports-related programming, as well as live and replay sporting events. the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns currently have approximately 84 million subscribers and have rights to telecast live games of 68 of 82 u.s. professional sports teams in mlb, the national basketball association and the national hockey league; collegiate conferences; and numerous college and high school sports teams. fx . currently reaching over 96 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research, fx is a general entertainment network that telecasts a growing roster of original series, as well as acquired television series and motion pictures. fx lineup for the 2010-2011 season includes the critically acclaimed rescue me , sons of anarchy and justified . also included in the 2010-2011 season line-up is the sixth season of the comedy series it always sunny in philadelphia , the second season of archer and the league and the first season of lights out , louie and terriers . current syndicated series include that 70s show , spin city, malcolm in the 9 table of contents middle, the bernie mac show and beginning in fall 2010, two and a half men . during the 2010-2011 season, fx will also showcase the television premieres of theatrical motion pictures, including marley &amp; me , iron man , hancock , dr. seuss horton hears a who! , kung fu panda , twilight and slumdog millionaire . fx has also acquired the telecast premiere rights to avatar for 2012. the company also produces and distributes fx hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. speed . currently reaching nearly 76 million households in the united states according to nielsen media research, speed brings viewers season-long coverage of nascar races, events and original programming (including exclusive coverage of the annual nascar sprint all-star race and nascar hall of fame ceremonies). in addition, speed delivers programming from other top racing series, such as formula one, grand american road racing, american le mans series, the 24 hours of le mans, american motorcycle association, ama supercross, monster jam, world superbike and motogp. speed popular enthusiast series pinks all out is a reality-based racing show in its fourth season, pitting amateur racers against each other in a unique grassroots drag racing format. in 2010, speed premiered three new enthusiast series, intersections , stealth rider and battle of the supercars . speed also is distributed to subscribers in mexico, canada and latin america. the company also produces and distributes speed hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. in fiscal 2010, speed launched a new broadband network, speed2, which features live and on-demand streaming of over 200 hours of motorsports events online. fuel tv . fuel tv is the only domestic 24-hour programming service dedicated to action sports and the lifestyle surrounding it. fuel tv covers both competitive and performance action in the arenas of skateboarding, surfing, bmx, freestyle motocross, snowboarding and wakeboarding. programming includes u.s. and international action sports events and competitions, as well as original series and specials about top action sports athletes and their music, art and culture from a global perspective. fox college sports . fox college sports consists of three regionally-aligned networks, fcs pacific, fcs central and fcs atlantic. fox college sports provides live and delayed collegiate events from the nation top collegiate conferences, coaches shows and collegiate highlight and magazine-format programming from the fsn rsns and certain of the fsn affiliated rsns across the country. fox movie channel . fox movie channel ( fmc ) is hollywood first and only studio-based movie network. fmc airs twentieth century fox films, as well as documentaries and original series that explore the moviemaking process from script to screen. fox soccer channel . fox soccer channel is an english-language programming service offering comprehensive coverage of world-class soccer. top properties include the uefa champions league, english premier league, italian serie a and major league soccer, along with daily soccer news programs, magazine shows and in depth coverage on the world most popular sport. in january 2010, the company launched fox soccer channel hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. fox soccer plus . launched in march 2010, fox soccer plus is a new premium cable network showcasing nearly 700 exclusive live soccer and rugby competitions. soccer events include matches from the uefa champions league, english premier league, italian serie a, fa cup, coca-cola championships and carling cup. rugby coverage includes matches from the heineken cup, guinness premiership, magners league and sanzar. fox pan american sports . the company has an approximate 33% equity interest in fox pan american sports llc ( fpas ), with hm capital partners, llc owning the remainder. fpas owns and operates spanish-language sports businesses, including the fox sports latin america network (a spanish-language sports network distributed to subscribers in certain caribbean and central and south american nations outside of brazil) and fox sports en espa&ntilde;ol (the first spanish-language sports programming service to be distributed in the united states). 10 table of contents big ten network . the company owns an approximate 49% interest in the big ten network, a 24-hour national programming service dedicated to the big ten conference and big ten athletics, academics and related programming, and big ten network hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in hd. national geographic u.s. the company holds an approximate 71% interest in ngc network us llc ( ngc network ), which produces and distributes the national geographic channel and national geographic channel hd, nat geo wild and nat geo wild hd in the united states, with nght, inc., a subsidiary of the national geographic society ( nght ), holding the remaining interest. national geographic channel and national geographic channel hd currently reach approximately 70 million households in the united states and nat geo wild and nat geo wild hd reach approximately 37 million subscribers in the united states according to nielsen media research. the national geographic channels air documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture. the nat geo wild channels air documentary programming featuring natural history. fox international channels ( fic ). fic operates, develops and distributes primarily factual and general entertainment channels in various countries in europe, latin america, the caribbean, africa and asia, including: the fox channel, fox life, fx, speed, utilisma, fox crime, cult, next, fox history &amp; entertainment, the voyage channel, fox sports, star world and star movies. these channels are distributed either in hd or in standard definition ( sd ) or in certain cases, in both hd and sd. fic also owns a 52.2% interest in ngc network international llc and ngc network latin america llc (collectively ngc international ), with nght holding a 26.8% interest and a subsidiary of bskyb holding a 21% interest. ngc international produces and distributes the national geographic channel in various international markets. ngc international also produces and distributes the national geographic channel hd, the nat geo adventure channel (in both hd and sd), the nat geo wild channel (in both hd and sd) and the nat geo music channel in international markets. the national geographic channel is currently shown in 35 languages and in approximately 166 countries internationally, including the united states. fic owns a 55% equity interest in laptv, a partnership that distributes five premium pay television channels (movie city, movie city hd, city mix, city stars and city vibe and their multiplexes) and one basic television channel (the film zone east and west) in latin america (excluding brazil). such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of twentieth century fox and three other studio partners in the english language with spanish subtitles. fic has voting control over an additional 22.5% interest in laptv. fic also owns a majority equity interest in elite sports limited, a company that owns and distributes babytv, a 24-hour channel dedicated to infants and toddlers under three years old to over 65 countries outside of the united states. fic also manages channel [v] thailand in which the company owns a 49% interest. channel [v] thailand owns a thai language music channel and licenses its channel [v] brand to a third party in australia to operate a music channel. in addition, fic has a joint venture with cj media, a korean media conglomerate for the distribution of the tvn channel, a 24-hour general entertainment channel featuring korean content, such as original dramas, variety shows, reality and lifestyle programs. star india . star india develops, produces and broadcasts 23 channels in eight languages, which are distributed primarily via satellite to local cable, internet protocol television ( iptv ) and direct-to-home ( dth ) operators for distribution throughout asia, the united kingdom, continental europe and north america to their subscribers. star india primary sources of programming for its channels include original 11 table of contents programming produced, commissioned or acquired by star india. star india also owns a hindi film library comprised of approximately 1,000 titles, a south indian languages film library comprised of approximately 2,065 titles, a hindi television program library comprised of approximately 570 titles and a south indian languages program library comprised of approximately 3,610 titles. star india channels include the flagship hindi general entertainment channel star plus, the bengali general entertainment channel star jalsha and the marathi general entertainment channel star pravah. in addition, the company owns an approximate 26% interest in media content &amp; communications services (india) private limited, which owns and operates three star -branded indian language 24-hour news and current affairs channels. in january 2009, the company expanded into south india regional programming by forming asianet communications limited, a joint venture with asianet tv holdings private limited to provide television services for south indian audiences. the joint venture consists of the company approximate 81% interest in the tamil language channel vijay and the company approximate 75% interest in the malayalam language channels asianet and asianet plus, the kannada language channel suvarna and the telugu language channel sitara. the company also owns an approximate 26% stake in balaji telefilms limited ( balaji ), which is one of the largest television content production companies in india, the shares of which are listed on the stock exchange, mumbai and the national stock exchange of india. balaji currently produces serials broadcast on star plus and other general entertainment channels in india. the company also holds a 20% direct stake in tata sky limited which owns and operates a dth platform in india. the company has a 50/50 joint venture with den digital entertainment networks private limited to operate a television channel distribution business in india, nepal, bangladesh, sri lanka and bhutan that exclusively distributes star india owned and affiliated channels in these territories. the company has expanded into television home shopping in india through a 50/50 joint venture with cj o shopping co. ltd., a leading home shopping company in south korea and china. star china . star china develops and broadcasts chinese language television programming primarily in china on a free-to-air basis to local cable operators and three-star and above hotels and other approved organizations and institutions. outside china, star china television services are distributed on a pay television basis, primarily via satellite, cable and iptv operators. star china channels include xing kong (distributed in mainland china and internationally) and channel [v] (china). the programming for star china channels is acquired from third party sources or is original programming commissioned by star china. star taiwan . star taiwan develops and broadcasts chinese language television programming targeted at chinese-speaking audiences in taiwan and the rest of asia on a pay television basis. star taiwan television services are distributed primarily via satellite to local cable, iptv and dth operators in asia and north america. star taiwan channels include star chinese channel, star chinese movies, star chinese movies 2 and channel [v] taiwan. the primary sources of programming for star taiwan channels include programming acquired from third party sources and original programming commissioned by star taiwan. in addition, the fortune star division of star taiwan sells television, new media, home video and other rights to its extensive contemporary chinese film library comprised of over 750 titles. middle east. the company has a 9.09% interest in rotana holding fz-llc ( rotana ), which operates a diversified film, television, audio, advertising and entertainment business across the middle east and north africa. the company also has a 50% interest in broadcast middle east fz-llc ( bme ), with the other 50% interest held by moby media holdings fz-llc. bme broadcasts farsi language general entertainment programming across the middle east under the farsi1 brand. 12 table of contents espn star sports. the company owns a 50% interest in espn star sports, with espn owning the remainder. espn star sports is the leading sports broadcaster in asia and operates 19 channels in different languages. phoenix . the company owns an approximate 18% interest in phoenix, a company listed on the main board of the stock exchange of hong kong limited. phoenix owns and operates chinese language general entertainment, movie and current affairs channels, all of which are targeted at chinese audiences around the world and are primarily distributed on a free or an encrypted basis via pay television platforms in asia and europe and in the united states. phoenix also operates outdoor advertising and new media businesses. competition. general. cable network programming is another highly competitive business. cable networks compete for distribution and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with free-to-air broadcast television, radio, print media, motion picture theaters, dvds, internet, wireless and portable viewing devices and other sources of information and entertainment. important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. fox news. fox news channel primary competition comes from the cable networks cnn, msnbc and cnn headline news. fox business network primary competition comes from the cable networks cnbc and bloomberg television. fox news channel and fox business network also compete for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks and free-to-air broadcast television networks. sports programming operations. a number of basic and pay television programming services, such as espn and versus, as well as free-to-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that also targets the fsn rsns audience. fsn is the leading programming service distributing a full range of sports programming on both a national and regional level. on a national level, fsn primary competitor is espn and, to a lesser extent, espn2 and versus. in regional markets, the fsn rsns compete with other regional sports networks, including those operated by team owners, cable television systems, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors. in addition, the fsn rsns and fsn compete, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. the fsn rsns compete for local and regional rights with local broadcast television stations, other local and regional sports networks, including sports networks launched by team owners, and distribution outlets, such as cable television systems. fsn competes for national rights principally with a number of national cable services that specialize in or carry sports programming, including sports networks launched by the leagues and conferences, and television superstations that distribute sports. independent syndicators also compete by acquiring and reselling such rights nationally, regionally and locally. distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, sometimes contract directly with the sports teams in their service area for the right to distribute a number of those teams games on their systems. in certain markets, the owners of distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, also own one or more of the professional teams in the region, increasing their ability to launch competing networks and also limiting the professional sports rights available for acquisition by fsn rsns. fx. fx faces competition from a number of basic cable and pay television programming services, such as usa, tnt, spike tv, hbo and showtime, as well as free-to-air broadcast networks that provide programming that targets the same viewing audience as fx. fx also faces competition from these programming services in the acquisition of distribution rights to movie and series programming. international . internationally, the company cable businesses compete with various local and foreign television services providers and distribution networks for audiences, content acquisition and distribution platforms. 13 table of contents star india . in india, the pay television broadcasting industry has several participants, and star india entertainment channels compete with both pay and free-to-air channels since they are delivered by common cable. star india also competes in india to acquire film and programming rights. direct broadcast satellite television the company engages in the direct broadcast satellite business through its subsidiary, sky italia. the company also owns significant equity interests in bskyb and sky deutschland ag (formerly premiere ag) ( sky deutschland ), which are engaged in the dbs business (for a description of the businesses of these equity interests, please see discussion under heading equity interests ). sky italia sky italia currently distributes over 180 channels of basic, premium and pay-per-view programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in italy. this programming includes exclusive rights to popular sporting events, newly-released movies and sky italia original programming, such as sky tg 24 , italy first 24-hour news channel. as of june 30, 2010, sky italia had approximately 4.7 million subscribers. competition . the number of pay television subscribers with services in italy, other than sky italia, is growing and is expected to continue to increase. sky italia competition includes companies that offer video, audio, interactive programming, telephony, data and other information and entertainment services, including broadband internet providers, digital terrestrial transmission ( dtt ) services, wireless companies and companies that are developing new media technologies. competition is encouraged through the regulatory environment that requires sky italia to wholesale its premium programming, to limit the length and exclusivity of certain of its premium programming contracts and to provide third parties with access to the sky italia platform. in addition, since 2003, sky italia had been prohibited from owning a dtt frequency or providing a pay television dtt offer under a commitment made to the european commission (the ec ) through december 31, 2011. in july 2010, the ec modified this restriction to allow sky italia to bid for one dtt frequency. however, if sky italia were to successfully bid for such a dtt frequency, the ec would limit sky italia use of such frequency to exclusively free-to-air channels through 2015. for a further discussion of the government regulations that sky italia is subject to, see government regulation cable network programming and direct broadcast satellite television. integrated marketing services news america marketing group ( namg ) publishes free-standing insert publications and provides in-store marketing products and services. namg is one of the two largest publishers of free-standing inserts in the united states. free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, rebates and other consumer offers, which are distributed to consumers through insertion primarily into local sunday newspapers. advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay namg to produce free-standing inserts, and namg contracts with and pays newspapers to include the free-standing inserts primarily into the newspapers sunday editions. namg produces over 69 million free-standing inserts more than 40 times a year, which are inserted in approximately 1,600 sunday newspapers throughout the united states. namg, through an affiliate, also produces over eight million free-standing inserts approximately 15 times annually, which are inserted into over 200 canadian newspapers in canada. namg is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged goods manufacturers, with products in more than 55,000 supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, office supply stores and mass merchandisers worldwide. smartsource &reg; is the brand name that is linked with namg vast assortment of marketing products, including, among others, free-standing inserts, namg instant coupon machines and various shelf advertising products. the smartsource &reg; brand currently reaches approximately 152 million consumers weekly. 14 table of contents the smartsource igroup manages namg portfolio of database marketing and on-line marketing products and services. the database marketing business, branded smartsource direct, provides database marketing and technology solutions for both retailers and manufacturers. the smartsource savings network, which includes smartsource.com, is an internet-based network of approximately 250 newspaper, retailer and lifestyle sites connected through a common platform that currently delivers printable coupons, samples and other consumer marketing to an audience of approximately 65 million consumers. competition . namg competes against other providers of marketing products and services, including those that provide promotional or advertising inserts and direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, as well as those that provide trade and in-store advertisements and promotions. competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, and rate of coupon redemption. newspapers and information services the company is engaged in the newspaper and information services business, primarily through its subsidiaries news international, news limited, dow jones and the new york post. news international limited ( news international ) news international publishes the times , the sunday times , the sun and news of the world in the united kingdom and ireland. sales of these four newspapers account for approximately one-third of all national newspapers sold in the united kingdom. both the times , a daily published monday through saturday, and the sunday times, are leading quality newspapers. the sun , published each morning monday through saturday, and news of the world , published on sunday, are both popular, mass market newspapers. the average paid circulation for each of these four national newspapers for the six months ended june 30, 2010 was approximately: the times 507,000; the sunday times 1,118,000; the sun 2,978,000; and news of the world 2,909,000. the printing of all four of news international national newspapers (except saturday and sunday supplements) takes place principally in its four printing facilities located in england, scotland and ireland. news international also publishes the times literary supplement , a weekly literary review. news limited news limited is the largest newspaper publisher in australia, owning approximately 146 daily, sunday, weekly, bi-weekly and tri-weekly newspapers, of which four are free commuter titles and 101 are suburban publications (including 16 of which news limited has a 50% interest). news limited publishes the only nationally distributed general interest newspaper in australia, the leading metropolitan newspapers in each of the major australian cities of sydney, melbourne, brisbane, adelaide, perth, hobart and darwin and the leading suburban newspapers in the suburbs of sydney, melbourne, adelaide, brisbane and perth. news limited daily and sunday newspapers account for more than 70% of the total circulation of all daily and sunday newspapers (excluding suburban and regional newspapers) published in australia. news limited principal daily newspapers in australia are: the australian; the daily telegraph , published in sydney; the herald sun , published in melbourne; the courier-mail, published in brisbane; the advertiser , published in adelaide; the mercury , published in hobart; and the northern territory news , published in darwin. the australian , which is australia only general interest national daily newspaper, is printed in six cities and distributed nationwide. news limited other principal daily newspapers in australia are mass circulation, regional newspapers with broad-based readerships and are published and distributed regionally. the average monday to friday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers during fiscal 2010 was approximately as follows: the australian 133,000; the daily telegraph 367,000; the herald sun 517,000; the courier-mail 214,000; the advertiser 184,000; the mercury 46,000; and the northern territory 15 table of contents news 21,000. the average saturday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers during fiscal 2010 was approximately as follows: the weekend australian 304,000; the daily telegraph 326,000; the herald sun 508,000; the courier-mail 298,000; the advertiser 251,000; the mercury 62,000; and the northern territory news 32,000. news limited principal sunday newspapers in australia are: the sunday telegraph , published in sydney; the sunday herald sun , published in melbourne; the sunday mail, published in brisbane; the sunday mail , published in adelaide; the sunday times , published in perth; the sunday tasmanian , published in hobart; and the sunday territorian, published in darwin. all these newspapers are mass circulation, metropolitan sunday newspapers with broad-based readerships reflecting the diversity of the populations of the cities in which they are published. the average paid circulation of each of these sunday newspapers during fiscal 2010 was approximately as follows: the sunday telegraph 641,000; the sunday herald sun 609,000; the sunday mail (brisbane ) 535,000; the sunday mail (adelaide) 303,000; the sunday times 316,000; the sunday tasmanian 59,000; and the sunday territorian 22,000. the other newspapers that news limited owns and publishes in australia are distributed to a wide range of readers in urban, suburban and rural areas and are principally weekly publications. the majority of such newspapers are free-distribution suburban publications. in the sydney suburban markets, news limited owns 21 weekly newspapers; in melbourne, 33 weekly newspapers; in brisbane, 20 weekly newspapers; in adelaide, 11 weekly newspapers; and in perth, news limited 50% owned suburban group publishes 16 weekly newspapers. the aggregate average weekly circulations of these suburban newspapers for the six months ended march 31, 2010 was approximately 5,036,000 homes. in addition to these newspapers, news limited also publishes three other publications (two monthlies and one weekly) with an average circulation for the six months ended march 31, 2010 of approximately 100,000 homes for the monthly titles and approximately 40,000 for the weekly title. news limited suburban newspapers are leading publications in terms of advertising and circulation in each of their respective markets. news limited other newspapers in australia are regional newspapers, circulating throughout broader, less densely populated areas. except for 33 of its suburban newspapers and one regional newspapers, news limited australian newspapers are produced and printed in facilities owned by the company. dow jones dow jones is a global provider of news and business information, with newspaper, newswire, website, newsletter, magazine, database, conference, radio and video businesses. dow jones offers products targeting both individual consumer and business and institutional customers, including the wall street journal , dow jones newswires, dow jones factiva, barron , marketwatch, smartmoney and other products. products targeting business and institutional customers, including dow jones newswires and dow jones factiva, combine news and information with technology and tools designed to inform decisions and to aid awareness, research and understanding. the dow jones local media group publishes community newspapers, websites and other products in six u.s. states. the wall street journal . the wall street journal is available in print, online at wsj.com, and on mobile devices such as phones, e-readers and ipads. the print edition of the wall street journal is one of the largest newspapers in the united states, with an average circulation during fiscal 2010 of 1.8 million; and wsj.com is the largest paid subscription news website on the internet, with over one million subscribers as of june 30, 2010. wsj.com, which offers both free and premium content, also averaged more than 22 million visitors per month during fiscal 2010 according to omniture. the wall street journal three major national print editions are produced at plants around the united states, including 11 owned by the company. the wall street journal sells 16 table of contents regional advertising in 21 regional print editions and pre-printed advertisements in various subsets of the print circulation. in april 2010, the wall street journal launched a new regional edition for the new york city area called greater new york. barron . barron is available in print, online at barrons.com, and on mobile devices. barron caters to financial professionals, individual investors and others interested in financial markets. its print edition is published weekly. in fiscal 2010, barron print edition had an average paid weekly circulation of 303,000 and barrons.com had more than 150,000 paid subscribers. barron print edition is produced at plants around the united states, including at 11 owned by the company. smartmoney . smart money publishes news and information focusing on personal finance, and is available in print, online at smartmoney.com, and on mobile devices. the print edition of smart money is published monthly and, in fiscal 2010, had average monthly paid circulation of more than 800,000. the wall street journal digital network ( wsdn ). wsdn comprises business and financial news websites and mobile applications. in addition to wsj.com, barrons.com and smartmoney.com, discussed above, wsjdn includes marketwatch.com, allthingsd.com and related sites. in fiscal 2010, the wsdn averaged more than 33 million visitors per month with more than 400 million page views according to omniture. marketwatch.com is an investing and financial news site targeting active investors and averaged more than 9 million visitors per month during fiscal 2010 according to omniture. allthingsd.com is a personal technology site that features breaking technology news, in-depth coverage of silicon valley and the media industry, and product reviews and analysis. international editions of the wall street journal . the wall street journal europe print edition, which had an average circulation of 73,000 during fiscal 2010, is headquartered in london and printed in belgium, germany, ireland, italy, spain, switzerland, turkey and the united kingdom. the wall street journal asia print edition, which had an average circulation of 82,000 during fiscal 2010, is headquartered in hong kong and printed in hong kong, india, indonesia, japan, korea, malaysia, the philippines, singapore, taiwan and thailand. regional coverage from the wall street journal europe and the wall street journal asia is also available online at wsj.com. dow jones also publishes the wall street journal special editions , which provide wall street journal pages and/or content in local languages. dow jones factiva ( factiva ) . factiva provides news and business information with search and discovery technology and tools to assist business and institutional customers with research, awareness and decision-making. factiva had over 1.8 million paying customers worldwide as of june 30, 2010. dow jones newswires. dow jones newswires is a premier provider of real-time business news and information for over 400,000 financial professionals around the world as of june 30, 2010. it publishes over 4,000 news items in multiple languages each day, including breaking news, analysis, commentary and statistical data. dow jones indexes. in march 2010, dow jones and cme group inc. ( cme ) formed a joint venture to operate a global financial index service business, to which dow jones contributed its dow jones indexes business, including the dow jones industrial average, and cme contributed a business that provides certain market data services. dow jones and cme own 10% and 90% of the venture, respectively. dow jones local media. the dow jones local media business publishes local media print publications, including eight general interest dailies published in california, massachusetts, new hampshire, new york, oregon and pennsylvania, and related local websites. during fiscal 2010, average print circulation for these dailies was 234,000, with sunday circulation of 272,000. the dow jones local media business also publishes 14 weekly newspapers and more than 30 other publications. 17 table of contents other products and distribution channels. dow jones venturesource, which targets business and institutional customers, is a database for venture capital and private equity markets tracking key developments of more than 47,000 venture-backed companies and 8,800 private capital firms world-wide. dow jones watchlist helps compliance professionals identify high-risk clients and business associates. efinancialnews holdings ltd., based in london, serves the european financial services industry with print, online, training and events businesses. the wall street journal professional edition provides business and professional readers the specialized news and information most of interest to them. dow jones also distributes news and information to individual consumers through other channels of content distribution, including: television, radio/audio, online video, consumer electronic licensing, and the wall street journal classroom, campus and sunday editions, and wsj. magazine. dow jones also owns an interest in vedomosti, a joint venture owned equally by dow jones, pearson plc and independent media, which publishes a russian language business daily. vedomosti had average circulation of 54,000 during the fiscal year ended june 30, 2010, and includes original content and content from the wall street journal and the financial times translated into russian. new york post the new york post (the post ) is a mass circulation, metropolitan morning newspaper published seven days a week and primarily distributed in the new york metropolitan area, the northeast, florida and california. for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2010, the newspaper had an average weekday circulation of approximately 510,000. the company prints the post in a printing facility in the bronx, new york and uses third party printers in its other markets in the united states. the company community newspaper group also owns several local newspapers and other publications distributed in the new york metropolitan area. competition the newspapers, magazines and online publications of the company that target individual consumers compete for readership and advertising with a variety of print and digital media. the competition includes local and national newspapers, as well as wholly web-based media, along with television, radio and other communications media. competition for newspaper circulation is based on the news and editorial content of the newspaper, cover price and, from time to time, various promotions. the success of the newspapers published by the company in competing with newspapers and other media for advertising depends upon advertisers judgments as to the most effective use of their advertising budgets. competition for advertising among newspapers is based upon circulation levels, readership levels, reader demographics, advertising rates and advertiser results. such judgments are based on factors such as cost, availability of alternative media, circulation and quality of readership demographics. in recent years, the newspaper industry has experienced difficulty increasing or maintaining circulation volume and revenues. this is due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media formats and sources, and shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news from sources other than a newspaper. the company believes that competition from new media formats and sources and shifting consumer preferences will continue to pose challenges within the newspaper industry. online publications, as well as print publications, compete with other websites that offer continuously updated coverage of business news, as well as licensing of electronic content. unlike wsj.com, most of the company competitors currently do not, for the most part, utilize an online paid subscription model competitors of dow jones online publications include ft.com, new york times digital, thestreet.com, bloomberg, forbes.com, yahoo!finance, cnet, cnn money, msnmoney/cnbc and google finance. 18 table of contents dow jones newswires competes with other global financial newswires, including thomson reuters and bloomberg l.p., as well as many internet-based providers of financial news and information. dow jones factiva competes with various business information service providers, including lexisnexis, thomson reuters, hoover and onesource. factiva also competes with various internet-based information search services such as google, microsoft and yahoo!. book publishing harpercollins publishers ( harpercollins ) is engaged in english language book publishing on a worldwide basis and is one of the world largest english language book publishers. harpercollins principal businesses are harpercollins publishers llc ( harpercollins u.s. ), headquartered in new york, harpercollins publishers limited, headquartered in london, and the zondervan corporation llc, headquartered in grand rapids, michigan. harpercollins primarily publishes fiction and non-fiction, including religious books, for the general consumer. in the united kingdom, harpercollins publishes some titles for the educational market as well. during fiscal 2010, harpercollins u.s. had 164 titles on the new york times bestseller list, with 19 titles hitting number one, including going rogue by sarah palin, game change by john heilemann and mark halperin, superfreakonomics by steven d. levitt and stephen j. dubner, the art of racing in the rain by garth stein , the lacuna by barbara kingsolver, where the wild things are by maurice sendak, the carrie diaries by candace bushnell, fancy nancy: splendiferous christmas by jane o connor, the vampire diaries: nightfall by l.j. smith, and sweet little lies: an l.a. candy novel by lauren conrad. competition. the book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market that is quickly changing and has recently seen technological innovations, including electronic book devices and other entrants, such as google and apple. harpercollins competes with other large publishers, such as random house, penguin group, simon &amp; schuster and hachette livre, as well as with numerous smaller publishers, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities. in addition, harpercollins competes for readership with other media formats and sources. other digital media businesses the company digital media businesses include myspace, ign entertainment, inc. ( ign ), fox audience network ( fan ), and other internet properties. these businesses develop and promote content and experiences for internet audiences and generate revenue through internet advertising, sponsorships, subscriptions and e-commerce. myspace is a technology company enabling the discovery of content and people, and a platform for enabling audience development and direct fan communication for artists, including musicians, comedians, filmmakers and authors. myspace had nearly 70 million unique u.s. users and 101 million unique global users in june 2010 according to comscore media metrix. myspace mobile is one of the world largest mobile experience publishers, providing a wide portfolio of applications across multiple devices, including the iphone, ipad, android and blackberry. myspace games provides a social gaming platform that enables third party game publishers to offer their games within myspace. myspace video distributes premium and user-generated video content online within a social environment where users can view, create and share videos with their friends. myspace music, llc ( myspace music ) is a joint venture among myspace, sony bmg music entertainment, sony/atv music publishing, universal music group warner music group and emi group/capitol records. myspace music combines the myspace music community with comprehensive catalogues of music content, offering custom profiles for musicians, analytics and business metrics for musicians, free music streaming, social playlists and top charts for regional and global music activities. 19 table of contents ign entertainment, inc. ( ign ) network of video game, lifestyle and entertainment-related internet properties represent many of the top web properties in their respective categories across the internet. ign games sites (ign.com, gamespy, fileplanet, teamxbox and others) is the number one gaming information network on the internet with over 14.2 million unique users and 278 million page views in the united states in june 2010 according to comscore media metrix. in addition, ign direct2drive is a digital distribution site and ign gamespy technology group provides technology for online game play in video games. ign also owns and operates one of the leading men lifestyle websites, askmen.com. fan is an online advertising network and technology services provider. fan provides these services by aggregating audiences and advertising inventory across a network of both company-owned and other internet sites. fan myads platform provides self-serve tools that help small and medium businesses, search engine marketing companies and other marketers to build and manage their own display advertising campaigns. competition . these digital media businesses compete for advertisers, users and traffic with other internet sites and offline entertainment and advertising options. these businesses develop new tools and features to remain competitive. these new tools and features are key competitive factors in keeping users engaged with these digital media businesses. news outdoor the company owns a 79% interest in the news outdoor group ( news outdoor ) which operates the largest outdoor advertising company in russia, as well as companies in poland, romania, the czech republic and ukraine. in certain limited circumstances, the minority stockholders of news outdoor have the right to sell, and the company has the right to purchase, the minority interests at fair market value. in june 2010, news outdoor entered into an agreement to sell its polish outdoor advertising business, which is subject to polish anti-trust approval. the company is currently exploring the possible sale of the news outdoor business. other operations the company operates fox mobile group ( fmg ), which includes jamba (known as jamster in the united states, canada, the united kingdom and other english-speaking territories), a leading international provider of mobile entertainment, offering mobile products directly via mobile phones, including branded content from content providers around the world. such content includes music, mobile games, video and original content made exclusively for use on mobile phones. jamba currently distributes mobile content to consumers in over 15 territories around the world. the company is currently exploring the possible sale of the fmg business. the company has interests in fox tv in turkey and channel 10 in israel, which are free-to-air, general entertainment television stations. news digital media is the company australian online division. in addition to maintaining the company australian websites, news digital media is responsible for online advertising and transactions in australia. news digital media sites include carsguide.com.au, news.com.au, moshtix.com.au, getprice.com.au and truelocal.com.au. news digital media also has a 50% stake in careerone.com.au. equity interests bskyb the company holds an approximate 39% interest in bskyb. bskyb ordinary shares are listed on the london stock exchange under the symbol bsy. bskyb operates the leading pay television broadcast service in the united kingdom and ireland, as well as broadband and telephony services. bskyb acquires and commissions programming to broadcast on its own channels and supplies certain of those channels to cable operators for retransmission by the cable operators to their subscribers in the united kingdom and ireland. 20 table of contents bskyb also retails channels (both its own and those of third parties) to dth subscribers and to certain of its own channels to a limited number of dsl subscribers. in june 2010, the company announced that it had proposed to the board of directors of bskyb to make a cash offer of 700 pence per share for the bskyb shares that the company does not already own. the company and the independent members of bskyb board of directors were unable to reach a mutually agreeable price at the time of the public announcement; however, the parties entered into a cooperation agreement pursuant to which the parties agreed to work together to proceed with the regulatory process in order to facilitate a proposed transaction. nds the company holds an approximate 49% interest in nds. nds creates technologies and applications that enable pay television operators to deliver digital content to televisions, set-top boxes, dvrs, personal computers, portable media players, removable media and other mobile devices securely. foxtel the company, telstra corporation limited, an australian telecommunications company, and consolidated media holdings, an australian media and entertainment company, own and operate foxtel, a cable and satellite television service in australia with 25%, 50% and 25% interests, respectively. at june 30, 2010, foxtel had approximately 1.6 million managed subscribers (including subscribers to optus, an australian telecommunications company). at june 30, 2010, 100% of the foxtel managed subscriber base was connected to foxtel digital service, which delivers over 150 channels on cable and satellite. other investments skynz. the company owns an approximate 44% interest in sky network television limited, a land-linked uhf network and digital dbs service in new zealand. hulu . the company has an approximate 32% equity interest in hulu, llc ( hulu ) which operates an online video service that offers video content from fox, nbc universal, the walt disney company and over 100 other third party content licensors. hulu premium programming is available at hulu.com and over 35 destination sites online, including aol, imdb, msn, myspace and yahoo!. sky deutschland . the company owns an approximate 45% equity interest in sky deutschland, the leading satellite pay television operator in germany and austria. on august 2, 2010, the company agreed to backstop 340 million (approximately $448 million) of financing measures that are being initiated by sky deutschland. the financing measures are structured such that the company shareholding in sky deutschland will not exceed 49.9% unless the company elects to do so. the rights offering of up to 269.6 million newly issued registered shares may be combined with a bond issued to the company, that is convertible for up to 53.9 million underlying sky deutschland shares, and/or a loan provided by the company. the company will have the right to convert the bond into equity at any time following a 40-day holding period, subject to certain black-out periods. if not converted, the company will have the option to redeem the bond for cash upon its maturity in four years. the financing measures are expected to be completed by no later than january 31, 2011. government regulation general various aspects of the company activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. the company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations. the introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the company products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the interests of the company. 21 table of contents filmed entertainment united states. ffe is subject to the provisions of so-called trade practice laws in effect in 25 states relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. these laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain instances, also prohibit payment of advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by exhibitors. further, pursuant to various consent judgments, ffe and certain other motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on their trade practices in the united states, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis and, in some cases, a prohibition against the ownership of theaters. other international regulation. in countries outside of the united states, there are a variety of existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations that may affect the ability of ffe to distribute and/or license its motion picture and television products to cinema, television or in-home media, including copyright laws and regulations that may or may not be adequate to protect its interests, cinema screen quotas, television quotas, contract term limitations, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of u.s. products. the ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements, including the world trade organization general agreement on tariffs and trade and general agreement on trade and services; however, these agreements have limited application with respect to preventing the denial of market access to audio-visual products originating outside the european union. television in general, the television broadcast industry in the united states is highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc regulates television broadcasting, and certain aspects of the operations of cable, satellite and other electronic media that compete with broadcasting, pursuant to the communications act of 1934, as amended (the communications act ). the communications act permits the operation of television broadcast stations only in accordance with a license issued by the fcc upon a finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. the fcc grants television broadcast station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms. under the communications act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum permitted term of eight years. generally, the fcc renews broadcast licenses upon finding that: (i) the television station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. after considering these factors, the fcc may grant the license renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted, or hold an evidentiary hearing. fox television stations has pending renewal applications for a number of its television station licenses. six of the pending applications have been opposed by third parties. on june 13, 2007 and may 15, 2008, fox television stations entered into agreements with the fcc that preclude it from objecting, on the grounds that such action is barred by certain statutes of limitations, to fcc or other governmental action relating to (i) petitions to deny or complaints that have been filed against several owned and operated stations relating to programming that is alleged to violate the prohibition against indecent broadcasts or (ii) inquiries from the fcc regarding compliance with its sponsorship identification rules. for information on the television stations owned and operated by the company, see fox television stations above. on june 12, 2009, all full-power broadcast television stations were required to cease transmission in analog and convert to all digital broadcasts ( dtv ). by that date, the 27 stations owned and operated by fox television stations terminated their analog transmissions and, as required by law, each station surrendered one of the two broadcast channels it had been allotted in order to facilitate the transition to dtv. all fox television stations continue to transmit digital signals on their remaining channels. under fcc rules, television stations 22 table of contents may use their digital channel to broadcast hd digital programming and multicast several streams of standard definition digital programming and/or offer mobile digital television channels. broadcasters may also deliver data over these channels, provided that the supplemental services do not derogate the mandated, free-to-air program service. fox television stations is currently formulating plans for use of its digital channels. it is difficult to assess the impact of cessation of analog broadcasting and how the conversion to dtv will affect fox television stations business. in march 2010, the fcc delivered its national broadband plan to congress, which reviews the nation broadband internet infrastructure and recommends a number of initiatives to spur broadband deployment and use. in order to free up more spectrum for wireless broadband services, the broadband plan proposes to make spectrum available, including 120 megahertz of broadcast spectrum, by incentivizing current private-sector spectrum holders to return some of their spectrum to the government by 2015 through such initiatives as voluntary spectrum auctions (with current licensees permitted to share in the auction proceeds) and repacking of channel assignments to increase efficient spectrum usage. if voluntary measures fail to yield the amount of spectrum the fcc deems necessary for wireless broadband deployment, the broadband plan proposes various mandates to reclaim spectrum, such as forced channel sharing. the broadcast industry is exploring additional uses for currently allocated spectrum, such as mobile delivery of digital video and print content, to demonstrate that broadcasters need to retain all of their spectrum in order to bring valuable services to consumers. the fcc is expected to launch rulemaking proceedings on its spectrum proposals during the third quarter of calendar 2010; some of the proposals would also require congressional action. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of implementation of the broadband plan or its effect on the company. on june 2, 2003, the fcc concluded the 2002 biennial review of its broadcast ownership regulations required by the 1996 telecom act by amending its rules governing the ownership of television and radio stations and by replacing its newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership ban and the radio/television cross-ownership restriction with a new set of cross-media ownership limits (the june 2003 order ). in the consolidated appropriations act of 2004, congress increased the national television station ownership cap to permit an entity to have an attributable ownership interest in an unlimited number of television stations nationally, so long as the audience reach of those stations does not exceed, in the aggregate and after the application of the uhf discount, 39% of u.s. television households. several parties appealed the june 2003 order. the united states court of appeals for the third circuit (the third circuit ) stayed the effectiveness of the new rules and, on june 24, 2004, remanded the fcc june 2003 order for additional justification or modification of the revisions the fcc had made to its ownership regulations. on february 4, 2008, the fcc issued an order that concluded its 2006 review of its broadcast ownership regulations and addressed the issues raised by the third circuit remand (the february 2008 order ). the commission decided there should be no changes to its rules relating to the ownership of multiple television stations in the same market. those rules (i) permit the ownership of two television stations with overlapping coverage areas if the stations are in separate dmas; and (ii) permit the ownership of two stations in the same dma if their grade b coverage areas do not overlap or if eight independently owned full power television stations will remain in the dma after the stations that had been independently owned become commonly owned, and one of the merged stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. on the question of common ownership of a broadcast station and a newspaper in the same market, the commission modified its rules to create a presumption that such combinations are in the public interest in the top 20 dmas provided (i) only one television station and one newspaper are involved; (ii) at least eight major media voices will remain in the dma after the combination; and (iii) the television station is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. any other newspaper/broadcast combination is presumed to be inconsistent with the public interest. the presumption may be overcome if certain criteria enumerated by the fcc are satisfied. the february 2008 order was appealed by several parties, including the company and the case is currently pending in the united states court of appeals for the third circuit. on march 23, 2010, the third circuit lifted its stay of the february 2008 order and ordered briefs on the appeal to be filed. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the court action on this appeal or its effect on the company. 23 table of contents fox television stations is in compliance with the rules governing ownership of multiple stations in the same market and with the national station ownership cap established by congress. fox television stations retains an attributable interest in the post and two television stations in the new york dma. on october 6, 2006, the fcc reaffirmed the company permanent waiver of the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, which allows the common ownership of the post and wnyw(tv), and granted a two-year temporary waiver of the rule to continue to allow the common ownership of the post and wwor-tv (the october 2006 order ). the wwor-tv/ post combination is not entitled to a positive presumption under the fcc revised newspaper cross-ownership rule because of the company ownership of a second television station in the new york dma. the company is seeking a permanent waiver of the prohibition from the fcc on the grounds that it satisfies the criteria to overcome the negative presumption contained in the new rule. parties opposed to the october 2006 order filed a petition for reconsideration with the fcc, which was denied on may 22, 2009. other opponents of the october 2006 order have asked the fcc to reconsider its may 22, 2009 decision and have filed an opposition to the company request for a permanent waiver. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the fcc action on this request for reconsideration or its effect on the company. fcc regulations implementing the cable television consumer protection and competition act of 1992 (the 1992 cable act ) require each television broadcaster to elect, at three-year intervals, either to (i) require carriage of its signal by cable systems in the station market ( must carry ) or (ii) negotiate the terms on which that broadcast station would permit transmission of its signal by the cable systems within its market ( retransmission consent ). generally, the company has elected retransmission consent for the stations owned and operated by fox television stations. on november 30, 2007, the fcc resolved issues relating to carriage requirements for digital broadcast television signals on cable systems by concluding that cable operators are required to ensure that all must carry television signals remain viewable in homes with only analog equipment. in addition, the fcc reaffirmed that must carry stations that multicast several streams of digital programming are entitled to the carriage by cable systems of only a single primary programming stream. the digital signals of stations that elect retransmission consent may be carried in any manner consistent with the agreement between the cable system and the broadcaster. the satellite home viewer improvement act of 1999 required satellite carriers, as of january 1, 2002, to carry upon request all television stations located in markets in which the satellite carrier retransmits at least one local station pursuant to the copyright license provided in the statute ( carry one, carry all ). fcc regulations implementing this statutory provision require affected stations to elect either mandatory carriage at the same three year intervals applicable to cable must carry or negotiate carriage terms with the satellite operators. satellite carriers are expected to seamlessly replace stations analog signals with digital signals. in march 2008, the fcc decided that its carry one, carry all policy also applies to local stations hd dtv signals; however, satellite carriers may phase in the carriage of all hd dtv signals in a dma over a four year period beginning in february 2010. several cable and satellite operators have filed a petition for rulemaking with the fcc seeking changes in the retransmission consent regulations, including the imposition of mandatory arbitration and required interim carriage in the event the broadcaster and distributor fail to reach a carriage agreement. the broadcast industry, including fox television stations, has opposed the petition. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of any fcc action on the petition or its effect on the company. legislation enacted in 1990 limits the amount of commercial matter that may be broadcast during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. in addition, under fcc license renewal processing guidelines, television stations are generally required to broadcast a minimum of three hours per week of programming, which, among other requirements, must serve, as a significant purpose, the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and under. a television station found not to have complied with the programming requirements or commercial limitations could face sanctions, including monetary fines and the possible non-renewal of its license. fcc rules prohibit the broadcast by television and radio stations of indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. beginning in march 2004, the fcc implemented a new policy regarding this prohibition and generally stepped up its enforcement of indecency violations. under the new policy, the single use of certain forbidden expletives, or variations of those expletives, were deemed indecent and profane. the 24 table of contents fcc also warned broadcasters that serious multiple violations of the indecency prohibition could lead to license revocation proceedings, and that fines could be imposed for each incident in a single broadcast. under the new fcc policy, both complaints about indecency and fcc enforcement actions have increased, and several complaints alleging the broadcast of alleged indecent or profane material by fox television stations are pending at the fcc. as of june 2006, the law authorizes the fcc to impose fines of up to $325,000 per incident for violation of the prohibition against indecent and profane broadcasts. on march 15, 2006, the fcc determined that the 2002 and 2003 billboard music awards programs, both live broadcasts on fox, violated the prohibitions against indecent and profane broadcasts because they contained isolated uses of the forbidden expletives (the march 15 order ). however, since these broadcasts preceded the fcc march 2004 policy, no forfeiture or other penalty was imposed. nonetheless, in april 2006, fox television stations appealed the march 15 order to the second circuit court of appeals (the second circuit ). on june 4, 2007, the second circuit granted fox appeal, vacating the march 15 order as well as the fcc new policy on fleeting expletives in its entirety on the grounds that both were arbitrary and capricious. the united states obtained review by the u.s. supreme court, which reversed the second circuit decision and remanded the case back to the second circuit for consideration of the constitutional issues that had been raised before but not yet decided by that court. on june 13, 2010, the second circuit vacated the march 15 order and the fcc indecency policy underlying it on the grounds that the policy is unconstitutionally vague and violates the first amendment. on february 22, 2008, the fcc issued an order imposing forfeitures of $7,000 each on 13 fox affiliates, including five stations owned and operated by the company, on the grounds that an april 7, 2003 episode of the program married by america violated the prohibition against indecent broadcasts. on april 4, 2008, the united states commenced an action in federal district court in the district of columbia against the five company-owned stations to collect the forfeitures imposed by the fcc. one of the stations, wdaf-tv, subsequently paid the $7,000 forfeiture and was dismissed from the case in connection with the sale of that station by the company to oak hill capital partners in july 2008. the company moved to dismiss the suit on several grounds, including that the fcc forfeiture order is unconstitutional. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of this case or its effect on the company. modifications to the company programming to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on the competitive position of fox television stations and fox. if indecency regulation is extended to cable and satellite programming, and such extension was found to be constitutional, some of the company cable programming services could be subject to additional regulation that might affect subscription and viewership levels. the fcc continues to enforce strictly its regulations concerning political advertising, children television, environmental concerns, equal employment opportunity, technical operating matters and antenna tower maintenance. fcc rules require the closed captioning of almost all broadcast and cable programming. legislation being considered by congress would extend closed captioning requirements to programming distributed over the internet. if enacted, the legislation would also require some television and cable programming to be video described, i.e., a verbal description of key visual elements is inserted into natural pauses in the audio and broadcast over a separate audio channel. although not required by fcc regulation, the company has committed to provide program ratings information for its broadcast network programming for use in conjunction with v chip technology, a technology that blocks the display of television programming based on its rating. fcc regulations governing network affiliation agreements mandate that television broadcast station licensees retain the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance. violation of fcc regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, periodic reporting conditions, short-term license renewals and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of license. 25 table of contents cable network programming and direct broadcast satellite television united states. fcc regulations adopted pursuant to the 1992 cable act (the program access rules ) prevent a cable operator that has an attributable interest (including voting or non-voting stock ownership of 5% or more or limited partnership equity interests of 5% or more) in a programming vendor from exercising undue or improper influence over the vendor in its dealings with competitors to cable. the program access rules also prohibit a cable programmer in which a cable operator has an attributable interest from entering into exclusive contracts with any cable operator or from discriminating among competing mvpds in the price, terms and conditions of sale or delivery of programming. the cable networks operated by the company are not currently subject to the program access rules. asia. the company broadcasts television programming over a footprint covering approximately 53 asian countries. most countries in which the company operates have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. government regulation of direct reception and redistribution via cable or other means of satellite television signals, where it is addressed at all, is treated differently in each country. at one extreme are absolute bans on private ownership of satellite receiving equipment. some countries, however, have adopted a less restrictive approach, opting to allow ownership of satellite receiving equipment by certain institutions and individuals but allowing them to receive only authorized broadcasts. at the opposite end of the spectrum are countries where private satellite dish ownership is allowed and laws and regulations have been adopted which support popular access to satellite services through local cable redistribution. most television services within asia, whether free-to-air or pay television, are also subject to licensing requirements. in addition, most countries in which the company operates control the content offered by local broadcast operators through censorship requirements to which program suppliers, such as the company, are subject. certain countries also require a minimum percentage of local content. other countries require local broadcast operators to obtain government approval to retransmit foreign programming. india. in india, private satellite dish ownership, including dth, is allowed. television viewers receive broadcast television signals primarily through terrestrial and cable delivery and, in more recent years, through dth and iptv delivery. terrestrial broadcasting remains the domain of government-owned broadcast stations. all cable television operators are required to carry certain government-operated channels. retransmissions of foreign satellite channels, such as star india channels, are permitted, subject to licensing requirements and compliance with local applicable laws, including censorship codes. the indian government requires that certain media content, whether produced in india or abroad, be certified by the central board of film certification prior to exhibition in india and also places certain restrictions on advertising content. limits are imposed by the indian government on the increase in the year-on-year prices payable by cable operators to broadcasters for certain channels, including the company channels. further, cable operators are required to provide pay television channels at a capped retail price, of which the broadcasters share is restricted to 45%. the wholesale and retail pricing tariffs are presently under review consequent to intervention by the indian courts. while there is no tariff regulation for dth, broadcasters are required to offer their channels to dth platforms at 50% of the rates charged to analogue cable operators. broadcasters are also required to provide their channels on non-discriminatory terms to all distributors if no carriage charges are being sought from broadcasters. china. in mainland china, private satellite dish ownership is prohibited except with special approval for hotels, government and foreign institutions that can receive only authorized broadcasts. there is a quota on the amount of foreign content that local television stations may broadcast. foreign satellite channels are not subject to such content restriction but they may only be distributed in three-star and above hotels and other approved organizations and institutions that are allowed to receive overseas satellite television channels or local operators that have received special approval to retransmit foreign satellite channels. in addition, local operators may only broadcast and transmit channels that carry content that fall within the genre of the government approval or license. 26 table of contents taiwan. in taiwan, private satellite dish ownership is allowed. the maximum subscription fee chargeable by cable television operators is set by both the national and local governments. cable television operators offer analog basic channels in a single package and digital premium channels in packages or on an &agrave; la carte basis as a buy through to their basic analog service. all channels offered in taiwan must be licensed. retransmission of foreign satellite programming by local cable operators is permitted, but local cable operators are also required to carry terrestrial channels and broadcast a minimum percentage of local content. additional categories of regulation of actual or potential significance to the company are restrictions on foreign investment in platform, television programming, production or channel businesses, uplink-downlink licensing regulations, content protection under copyright or communications law, limitations on exclusive arrangements for channel distribution and non-discrimination requirements for supply or carriage of programming and anti-competition or anti-trust legislation. europe. the sectors in which the company operates in europe are subject to both general competition laws and sector specific regulation. the regulatory regime applicable to the electronic communications and broadcasting sectors is, to a large extent, based on european union ( eu ) law comprised in various eu directives that require eu member states to adopt national legislation to give effect to the directives objectives, while leaving the precise manner and form of the national legislation to the discretion of each member state. the electronic communications directives regulate the provision of communication services, including networks and transmission services that are involved in the broadcasting of television services as well as the provisions of services and facilities associated with the operation of digital television platforms. the audiovisual media services directive sets out the basic principles for the regulation of television broadcasting activity, including broadcasting licensing, advertising and content regulation. in connection with the company acquisition of telepi&ugrave; spa and stream spa to form sky italia in 2003, the ec placed certain regulatory restrictions on the operations of sky italia through december 31, 2011. these restrictions require sky italia to wholesale its premium programming, to limit the length and exclusivity of certain of its premium programming contracts and to provide third parties with access to the sky italia platform. in addition, sky italia was prohibited from providing a pay television dtt offer and was prohibited from owning a dtt frequency. in july 2010, the ec modified this restriction to allow sky italia to bid for one dtt frequency. however, if sky italia were to successfully bid for such a dtt frequency, the ec would limit sky italia use of such frequency to exclusively free-to-air channels through 2015. internet the children online privacy protection act of 1998 ( coppa ) prohibits websites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. the controlling the assault of non-solicited pornography and marketing act of 2003 ( can-spam ) regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or spam. online services provided by the company may be subject to coppa and can-spam requirements. some state legislatures have adopted legislation that regulates how businesses operate on the internet, including measures relating to privacy and data security; others are considering specific legislation aimed at social networking sites, such as myspace.com. legislation has been introduced recently that would regulate the collection of data about consumers web browsing activities across the internet that are used to serve targeted advertising. in addition, in february 2009, the federal trade commission staff released guidelines for internet publishers (such as myspace.com) and internet advertising networks (such as fan) to address concerns about consumer privacy, transparency and control raised by such collection and use of online behavioral data, and called for self-regulation. on july 3, 2009, the industry released a set of self-regulatory online behavioral advertising principles. it is unclear whether these industry efforts alone will address the concerns expressed by some federal and state officials. the effect of possible privacy and data security legislation on the company business cannot be determined. 27 table of contents some foreign governments are raising similar safety, security and privacy concerns. in particular, the eu is actively evaluating the privacy implications of online behavioral data collection and usage. different policy options, including new regulations, are being considered at both the eu and member state levels. most of this activity is in its early stages and tighter regulation of the collection of online data is like. it is unclear how any government action would affect the company business. the company monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments. raw materials as a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. in order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the company paper purchasing is done on a centralized, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. the company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate. intellectual property the company intellectual property assets include: copyrights in motion pictures, television programming, newspapers, books, magazines, websites and technologies; trademarks in names, logos and characters; domain names; patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds. the company derives value from these assets through the theatrical release of films and the production, distribution and/or licensing of its films and television programming to domestic and international television and cable networks, pay television services, pay-per-view, video-on-demand services and dth satellite services, operation of websites, and through the sale of products, such as dvds, books, newspapers and magazines, among others. the company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property in the united states and other key foreign territories. to protect these assets, the company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and internet/domain name statutes and laws and contract provisions. however, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the company intellectual property. the company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives, deploying digital rights management technologies, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property. third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the company intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the company operations. moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. therefore, the company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement. item 1a. risk factors prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set forth below before making an investment in the company securities. 28 table of contents a decline in advertising expenditures could cause the company revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on or in its television stations, broadcast and cable networks, newspapers, integrated marketing services, digital media properties and dbs services. expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. a decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. demand for the company products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. for example, ratings points for the company television stations, broadcast and cable networks and circulation levels for the company newspapers are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates, and with respect to the company television stations and broadcast and television networks, when determining the affiliate rates received by the company. in addition, newer technologies, including new video formats, streaming and downloading capabilities via the internet, video-on-demand, personal video recorders and other devices and technologies are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences. some of these devices and technologies allow users to view television or motion pictures from a remote location or on a time-delayed basis and provide users the ability to fast-forward, rewind, pause and skip programming. these technological developments are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences and may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the company offerings to viewers, advertisers and/or distributors. a decrease in advertising expenditures or reduced demand for the company offerings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the company businesses. global economic conditions may have a continuing adverse effect on the company business. the united states and global economies have undergone a period of economic uncertainty, which caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, limited access to the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending and lower consumer net worth. the resulting pressure on the labor and retail markets and the downturn in consumer confidence weakened the economic climate in certain markets in which the company does business and has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the company business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. a continued decline in these economic conditions could further impact the company business, reduce the company advertising and other revenues and negatively impact the performance of its motion pictures and home entertainment releases, television operations, newspapers, books and other consumer products. in addition, these conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom the company does business to satisfy their obligations to the company. as a result, the company results of operations may be adversely affected. although the company believes that its operating cash flow and current access to capital and credit markets, including the company existing credit facility, will give it the ability to meet its financial needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair the company liquidity or increase its cost of borrowing. acceptance of the company film and television programming by the public is difficult to predict, which could lead to fluctuations in revenues. feature film and television production and distribution are speculative businesses since the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a feature film or television series depend primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. the commercial success of a feature film or television series also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing films and television series released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of a growing number of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and their effects on consumer spending and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. further, the theatrical success of a feature film and the audience ratings for a television series are generally key factors in generating revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and premium pay television, with respect to feature films, and syndication, with respect to television series. 29 table of contents the company could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets (including fcc licenses) and programming. in accordance with applicable generally accepted accounting principles, the company performs an annual impairment assessment of its recorded goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including fcc licenses, during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. the company also continually evaluates whether current factors or indicators, such as the prevailing conditions in the capital markets, require the performance of an interim impairment assessment of those assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets. any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or the expected popularity of the programming for which the company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of certain reporting units, particularly those in the newspapers and information services, television and cable network programming segments. a downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit, indefinite-lived intangible assets, investments or long-lived assets could result in an impairment and a non-cash charge would be required. any such charge could be material to the company reported net earnings. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could have an adverse effect on the company results of operations. the company has significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of the company operations are conducted in foreign currencies. the value of these currencies fluctuate relative to the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations in a given period or in specific markets. the loss of carriage agreements could cause the company revenue and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with third party owned television stations and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to the company. the loss of a significant number of these affiliation arrangements could reduce the distribution of fox and mynetworktv and adversely affect the company ability to sell national and local advertising time. similarly, the company cable networks maintain affiliation and carriage arrangements that enable them to reach a large percentage of cable and direct broadcast satellite households across the united states. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the company cable networks, which may adversely affect those networks revenues from subscriber fees and their ability to sell national and local advertising time. the inability to renew sports programming rights could cause the company advertising revenue to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the sports rights contracts between the company, on the one hand, and various professional sports leagues and teams, on the other, have varying duration and renewal terms. as these contracts expire, renewals on favorable terms may be sought; however, third parties may outbid the current rights holders for the rights contracts. in addition, professional sports leagues or teams may create their own networks or the renewal costs could substantially exceed the original contract cost. the loss of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by the company and its affiliates, as it relates to fox, and could adversely affect the company advertising and affiliate revenues. upon renewal, the company results could be adversely affected if escalations in sports programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in advertising rates and, in the case of cable networks, subscriber fees. technological developments may increase the threat of content piracy and signal theft and limit the company ability to protect its intellectual property rights. the company seeks to limit the threat of content piracy and dbs programming signal theft; however, policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken by the company may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized 30 table of contents third parties. developments in technology, including digital copying, file compressing and the growing penetration of high-bandwidth internet connections, increase the threat of content piracy by making it easier to duplicate and widely distribute pirated material. in addition, developments in software or devices that circumvent encryption technology increase the threat of unauthorized use and distribution of dbs programming signals. the company has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy and signal theft, both individually and, in some instances, together with industry associations. there can be no assurance that the company efforts to enforce its rights and protect its products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy or signal theft. content piracy and signal theft present a threat to the company revenues from products and services, including, but not limited to, films, television shows, books and dbs programming. labor disputes may have an adverse effect on the company business. in a variety of the company businesses, the company and its partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements, including employees of the company film and television studio operations and newspapers. if the company or its partners are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute could have an adverse effect on the company business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins. changes in u.s. or foreign regulations may have an adverse effect on the company business. the company is subject to a variety of u.s. and foreign regulations in the jurisdictions in which its businesses operate. in general, the television broadcasting and multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the united states are highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc generally regulates, among other things, the ownership of media, broadcast and multichannel video programming and technical operations of broadcast and satellite licensees. further, the united states congress and the fcc currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters, including technological changes, which could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of the company u.s. media properties. similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which the company, or entities in which the company has an interest, operate could adversely affect its business and results of operations. in addition, changes in tax regulations in the u.s. and other jurisdictions in which the company has operations could affect the company results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has exposure to several types of market risk: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and stock prices. the company neither holds nor issues financial instruments for trading purposes. the following sections provide quantitative information on the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and stock price risk. the company makes use of sensitivity analyses that are inherently limited in estimating actual losses in fair value that can occur from changes in market conditions. foreign currency exchange rates the company conducts operations in four principal currencies: the u.s. dollar; the british pound sterling; the euro; and the australian dollar. these currencies operate as the functional currency for the company u.s., united kingdom, italian and australian operations, respectively. cash is managed centrally within each of the four regions with net earnings reinvested locally and working capital requirements met from existing liquid funds. to the extent such funds are not sufficient to meet working capital requirements, draw downs in the appropriate local currency are available from intercompany borrowings. since earnings of the company australian, united kingdom and italian operations are expected to be reinvested in those businesses indefinitely, the company does not hedge its investment in the net assets of those foreign operations. at june 30, 2010, the company outstanding financial instruments with foreign currency exchange rate risk exposure had an aggregate fair value of $170 million (including the company non-u.s. dollar-denominated fixed rate debt). the potential increase in the fair values of these instruments resulting from a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately $12 million at june 30, 2010. interest rates the company current financing arrangements and facilities include approximately $13.3 billion of outstanding debt with fixed rates of interest and the credit agreement, which carries a variable interest rate. fixed and variable rate debts are impacted differently by changes in interest rates. a change in the interest rate or yield of fixed rate debt will only impact the fair market value of such debt, while a change in the interest rate of variable debt will impact interest expense, as well as the amount of cash required to service such debt. as of june 30, 2010, substantially all of the company financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk were denominated in u.s. dollars and had an aggregate fair value of approximately $15.0 billion. the potential change in fair market value for these financial instruments from an adverse 10% change in quoted interest rates across all maturities, often referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve, would be approximately $856 million at june 30, 2010. stock prices the company has common stock investments in several publicly traded companies that are subject to market price volatility. these investments principally represent the company equity affiliates and had an aggregate fair value of approximately $8.5 billion as of june 30, 2010. a hypothetical decrease in the market price of these investments of 10% would result in a fair value of approximately $7.7 billion. such a hypothetical decrease would result in a before tax decrease in comprehensive income of approximately $22 million, as any changes in fair value of the company equity affiliates are not recognized unless deemed other-than-temporary, as these investments are accounted for under the equity method. credit risk cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. the company has deposits held with banks that exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions of reputable credit and, therefore, bear minimal credit risk. 73 table of contents the company receivables did not represent significant concentrations of credit risk at june 30, 2010 or 2009 due to the wide variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the company products and services are sold. however, in light of the recent volatility in the domestic and global economies, the company estimates and judgments with respect to the collectability of its receivables have become subject to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods. the company monitors its positions with, and the credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. at june 30, 2010, the company did not anticipate nonperformance by any of the counterparties. 74 table of contentsrisk factors 30 risk factors in this annual report. the company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the company with the sec. this section should be read together with the consolidated financial statements of news corporation and related notes set forth elsewhere in this annual report. business overview the company is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in the six segments described below. cable network programming the company produces and licenses news, business news, sports, general entertainment and movie programming for distribution through cable television systems and direct broadcast satellite operators in the united states and internationally. fox news . fox news owns and operates the fox news channel, a 24-hour all news national cable channel currently available to over 99 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research, as well as the fox business network which is currently available to over 58 million u.s. households. 2 table of contents fox news also produces a weekend political commentary show, fox news sunday , for broadcast on local fox television stations throughout the united states. fox news, through its fox news edge service, licenses news feeds to fox affiliates and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts throughout the united states and abroad. fox news also produces and runs the websites, foxnews.com and foxbusiness.com, and owns and produces the national fox news radio network, which licenses news updates, long form programs and the fox news talk channel to local radio stations and to satellite radio providers. fsn . fox sports net, inc. ( fsn, inc. ) is the largest regional sports network ( rsn ) programmer in the united states, focusing on live professional and major collegiate home team sports events. fsn, inc. sports programming business currently consists primarily of ownership interests in 12 rsns, including numerous sub-regional feeds (the fsn rsns ) and national sports programming, which operates fsn ( fsn ), a national sports programming service. fsn, inc. also is affiliated with, through fsn, an additional nine rsns that are not owned by fsn, inc. (the fsn affiliated rsns ). fsn provides the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns with national sports programming, featuring original and licensed sports-related programming, as well as live and replay sporting events. the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns currently have approximately 83 million subscribers and have rights to telecast live games of 66 of 81 u.s. professional sports teams in major league baseball ( mlb ), the national basketball association and the national hockey league; collegiate conferences; and numerous college and high school sports teams. fx . currently reaching close to 100 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research, fx is a general entertainment network that telecasts a growing roster of original series, as well as acquired television series and motion pictures. fx lineup for the 2011-2012 season includes the critically acclaimed sons of anarchy, justified and the final season of rescue me . also included in the 2011-2012 season line-up is the seventh season of the comedy series it always sunny in philadelphia , the third seasons of archer and the league and the second season of louie . current syndicated series include that 70s show , spin city, malcolm in the middle, the bernie mac show and two and a half men , which will be joined by how i met your mother in september 2012. during the 2011-2012 season, fx will also showcase the television premieres of theatrical motion pictures, including twilight, transformers 2, the proposal, wolverine, night at the museum 2, star trek, karate kid, grown ups, how to train your dragon, ice age 3 and, the number one movie of all time, avatar . fx also recently acquired the telecast premiere rights to the hangover 2, x-men: first class, rise of the planet of the apes, thor, captain america, rio, kung fu panda 2, transformers 3 and green lantern, all premiering in 2013. the company also produces and distributes fx hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. speed . currently reaching more than 78 million households in the united states according to nielsen media research, speed brings viewers season-long coverage of the national association of stock car auto racing ( nascar ) races, events and original programming (including exclusive coverage of the annual nascar sprint all-star race and nascar hall of fame ceremonies). in addition, speed delivers programming from other top racing series, such as formula one, grand american road racing, the 24 hours of le mans, world of outlaws, ama pro racing, ama supercross, ama motocross, monster jam, world superbike and motogp. in the spring of 2011, speed premiered three new enthusiast series, car warriors, car science and american trucker . speed also is distributed by fox latin america channels to subscribers in mexico, canada and latin america and by premier media group in australia. the company also produces and distributes speed hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. speed new broadband network, speed2, launched in fiscal 2010. speed2, which features live and on-demand streaming of over 200 hours of motorsports events and enthusiast programming online, is expected to reach more than 30 million households in 2011. fuel tv . fuel tv is the only domestic 24-hour programming service dedicated to action sports and the lifestyle surrounding it. fuel tv covers both competitive and performance action in the arenas of skateboarding, surfing, bmx, freestyle motocross, snowboarding and wakeboarding. programming includes u.s. and international action sports events and competitions, as well as original series and specials about top action sports athletes and their music, art and culture from a global perspective. 3 table of contents fox college sports . fox college sports consists of three regionally-aligned networks, fcs pacific, fcs central and fcs atlantic. fox college sports provides live and delayed collegiate events from the nation top collegiate conferences, coaches shows and collegiate highlight and magazine-format programming from the fsn rsns and certain of the fsn affiliated rsns across the country. fox movie channel . fox movie channel ( fmc ) was hollywood first studio-based movie network. fmc airs twentieth century fox films, as well as documentaries and original series that explore the moviemaking process from script to screen. fox soccer channel . fox soccer channel is an english-language programming service offering comprehensive coverage of world-class soccer. top properties include the uefa champions league, england barclays premier league, italian serie a, fa cup and 2011 major league soccer, along with daily soccer news programs, magazine shows and in depth coverage on the world most popular sport. the company also produces and distributes fox soccer channel hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. fox soccer plus . launched in fiscal 2010, fox soccer plus is a premium cable network showcasing nearly 700 exclusive live soccer and rugby competitions. soccer events include matches from the uefa champions league, england barclays premier league, italian serie a, fa cup, npower championship and carling cup. rugby coverage includes matches from the heineken cup, aviva premiership and rabodirect pro 12. fox pan american sports and fox deportes . the company has an approximate 33% equity interest in fox pan american sports llc ( fpas ), with hm capital partners, llc owning the remainder. fpas owns and operates spanish-language sports businesses, including the fox sports latin america network (a spanish-language sports network distributed to subscribers in certain caribbean and central and south american nations outside of brazil). through the company interest in fpas and an additional direct ownership interest, the company has a 53% interest in fox deportes (the first spanish-language sports programming service to be distributed in the united states). fox deportes (formerly known as fox sports en espa&ntilde;ol), has more than 2,100 hours of live and exclusive programming and reaches more than 20 million cable and satellite households in the united states, of which almost 6 million are u.s. latino. big ten network . the company owns an approximate 51% interest in the big ten network, a 24-hour national programming service dedicated to the big ten conference and big ten athletics, academics and related programming, and big ten network hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in hd. national geographic u.s. the company holds an approximate 70% interest in ngc network us llc ( ngc network ), which produces and distributes the national geographic channel and national geographic channel hd, nat geo wild and nat geo wild hd in the united states, with nght, llc, a subsidiary of the national geographic society ( nght ), holding the remaining interest. national geographic channel and national geographic channel hd currently reach approximately 71 million households in the united states and nat geo wild and nat geo wild hd reach approximately 54 million subscribers in the united states according to nielsen media research. the national geographic channels air documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture. the nat geo wild channels air documentary programming featuring natural history. in july 2011, ngc network launched nat geo mundo, a spanish-language national programming service airing documentary programming on topics similar to those featured on the national geographic channels. 4 table of contents fox international channels ( fic ). fic operates, develops and distributes primarily factual and general entertainment channels in various countries in europe, latin america, the caribbean, africa and asia, including the fox channel, fox life, fx, speed, utilisima (which is also distributed in the united states), fox crime, next, fox history &amp; entertainment, the voyage channel, fox sports, star world and star movies. these channels are distributed either in hd or in standard definition ( sd ) or in certain cases, in both hd and sd. fic also owns a 52.2% interest in ngc network international llc and ngc network latin america llc (collectively ngc international ), with nght holding a 26.8% interest and a subsidiary of bskyb holding a 21% interest. ngc international produces and distributes the national geographic channel in various international markets. ngc international also produces and distributes the national geographic channel hd, the nat geo adventure channel (in both hd and sd), the nat geo wild channel (in both hd and sd) and the nat geo music channel in international markets. the national geographic channel is currently shown in 35 languages and in approximately 166 countries internationally, including the united states. fic owns a 55% equity interest in laptv, a partnership that distributes six premium pay television channels (movie city, movie city hd, city mix, city family, city stars and city vibe and their multiplexes) and two basic television channels (the film zone east and west and cinecanal) in latin america (excluding brazil). such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of twentieth century fox and three other studio partners in the english language with spanish subtitles. fic has voting control over an additional 22.5% interest in laptv. fic also owns a majority equity interest in elite sports limited, a company that owns and distributes babytv, a 24-hour channel dedicated to infants and toddlers under three years old to over 100 countries, including the united states. fic also manages channel [v] thailand in which the company owns a 49% interest. channel [v] thailand owns a thai language music channel. fic licenses its channel [v] brand to a third party in australia to operate a music channel. in addition, fic has a joint venture with cj media, a korean media conglomerate for the distribution of the tvn channel, a 24-hour general entertainment channel featuring korean content, such as original dramas, variety shows, reality and lifestyle programs. star india . star india develops, produces and broadcasts 28 channels in eight languages, which are distributed primarily via satellite to local cable, internet protocol television ( iptv ) and direct-to-home ( dth ) operators for distribution throughout asia, the united kingdom, continental europe and north america to their subscribers. star india primary sources of programming for its channels include original programming produced, commissioned or acquired by star india. star india also owns a hindi film library comprised of approximately 799 titles, a south indian languages film library comprised of approximately 2,553 titles, a hindi television program library comprised of approximately 620 titles and a south indian languages program library comprised of approximately 3,875 titles. star india channels include the flagship hindi general entertainment channel star plus, the bengali general entertainment channel star jalsha and the marathi general entertainment channel star pravah. in addition, the company owns an approximate 26% interest in media content &amp; communications services (india) private limited, which owns and operates three star -branded indian language 24-hour news and current affairs channels. in january 2009, the company expanded into south india regional programming by forming asianet communications limited, a joint venture with asianet tv holdings private limited to provide television services for south indian audiences. the joint venture consists of the company approximate 81% interest in the tamil language channel vijay and the company approximate 75% interest in the malayalam language channels asianet and asianet plus, the kannada language channel suvarna and the telugu language channel sitara. 5 table of contents the company also owns an approximate 26% stake in balaji telefilms limited ( balaji ), which is one of the largest television content production companies in india, the shares of which are listed on the stock exchange, mumbai and the national stock exchange of india. balaji currently produces serials broadcast on general entertainment channels in india. the company also holds an approximate 30% interest in tata sky limited which owns and operates a dth platform in india. the company has a 50/50 joint venture with den networks limited ( star den ) to operate a television channel distribution business in india, nepal and bhutan that exclusively distributes star india owned and affiliated channels in these territories. in may 2011, the company and star den entered into a 50/50 joint venture with zee turner limited and zee entertainment enterprises limited ( zeel ) to distribute and market all channels owned by the company and zeel, their respective affiliated channels and other third party channels in india, nepal and bhutan. the company has expanded into television home shopping in india through a 50/50 joint venture with cj o shopping co. ltd., a leading home shopping company in south korea and china. star taiwan . star taiwan develops and broadcasts chinese language television programming targeted at chinese-speaking audiences in taiwan and the rest of asia on a pay television basis. star taiwan television services are distributed primarily via satellite to local cable, iptv and dth operators in asia and north america. star taiwan channels include star chinese channel, star chinese movies, star chinese movies 2, star chinese movies hd and channel [v] taiwan. the primary sources of programming for star taiwan channels include programming acquired from third party sources and original programming commissioned by star taiwan. middle east. the company has an approximate 15% interest in rotana holding fz-llc ( rotana ), which operates a diversified film, television, audio, advertising and entertainment business across the middle east and north africa. the company also has a 50% interest in broadcast middle east fz-llc ( bme ), with the other 50% interest held by moby media holdings fz-llc. bme broadcasts farsi language general entertainment programming across the middle east under the farsi1 and, beginning july 2011, the zemzemeh brands. espn star sports . the company owns a 50% interest in espn star sports, with espn, inc. owning the remainder. espn star sports is the leading sports broadcaster in asia and operates 22 channels in different languages. phoenix . the company owns an approximate 18% interest in phoenix, a company listed on the main board of the stock exchange of hong kong limited. phoenix owns and operates chinese language general entertainment, movie and current affairs channels, all of which are targeted at chinese audiences around the world and are primarily distributed on a free or an encrypted basis via pay television platforms in asia and europe and in the united states. phoenix also operates outdoor advertising and new media businesses. phoenix new media business, phoenix new media limited, was spun off and listed on the new york stock exchange in may 2011. competition general. cable network programming is a highly competitive business. cable networks compete for distribution and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with free-to-air broadcast television, radio, print media, motion picture theaters, dvds, blu-ray high definition format discs ( blu-rays ), internet, wireless and portable viewing devices and other sources of information and entertainment. important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. 6 table of contents fox news. fox news channel primary competition comes from the cable networks cnn, msnbc and cnn headline news. fox business network primary competition comes from the cable networks cnbc and bloomberg television. fox news channel and fox business network also compete for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks and free-to-air broadcast television networks. sports programming operations. a number of basic and pay television programming services, such as espn and versus, as well as free-to-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that also targets the fsn rsns audience. fsn is the leading programming service distributing a full range of sports programming on both a national and regional level. on a national level, fsn primary competitor is espn and, to a lesser extent, espn2 and versus. in regional markets, the fsn rsns compete with other regional sports networks, including those operated by team owners, cable television systems, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors. in addition, the fsn rsns and fsn compete, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. the fsn rsns compete for local and regional rights with local broadcast television stations, other local and regional sports networks, including sports networks launched by team owners, and distribution outlets, such as cable television systems. fsn competes for national rights principally with a number of national cable services that specialize in or carry sports programming, including sports networks launched by the leagues and conferences, and television superstations that distribute sports. independent syndicators also compete by acquiring and reselling such rights nationally, regionally and locally. distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, sometimes contract directly with the sports teams in their service area for the right to distribute a number of those teams games on their systems. in certain markets, the owners of distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, also own one or more of the professional teams in the region, increasing their ability to launch competing networks and also limiting the professional sports rights available for acquisition by fsn rsns. fx. fx faces competition from a number of basic cable and pay television programming services, such as usa, tnt, spike tv, home box office, inc. ( hbo ) and showtime networks inc. ( showtime ), as well as free-to-air broadcast networks that provide programming that targets the same viewing audience as fx. fx also faces competition from these programming services in the acquisition of distribution rights to movie and series programming. national geographic u.s. national geographic channel and nat geo wild face competition for viewers and advertising from a number of basic cable and broadcast television channels, such as discovery channel, history channel, animal planet, travel channel, science channel, history international, military channel, biography and tru tv, as well as free-to-air broadcast networks and sports, news and general entertainment networks which have acquired or produced competing programming. international . internationally, the company cable businesses compete with various local and foreign television services providers and distribution networks for audiences, content acquisition and distribution platforms. star india . in india, the pay television broadcasting industry has several participants, and star india entertainment channels compete with both pay and free-to-air channels since they are delivered by common cable. star india also competes in india to acquire film and programming rights. filmed entertainment the company engages in the production and acquisition of live-action and animated motion pictures for distribution and licensing in all formats in all entertainment media worldwide, and the production and licensing of television programming worldwide. 7 table of contents feature film production and distribution one of the world largest producers and distributors of motion pictures, fox filmed entertainment ( ffe ) produces, acquires and distributes motion pictures throughout the world under a variety of arrangements. during fiscal 2011, ffe placed 24 motion pictures in general release in the united states. the motion pictures of ffe are produced and/or distributed by the following units of ffe: twentieth century fox and fox 2000, which produce and acquire motion pictures for mainstream audiences; fox searchlight pictures, which produces and acquires specialized motion pictures; and twentieth century fox animation, which produces feature length animated motion pictures. in addition, fox international productions, inc. co-produces, co-finances and acquires local-language motion pictures for distribution outside the united states. the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by ffe in the united states and international territories in fiscal 2011 included the chronicles of narnia: the voyage of the dawn treader, rio, x-men: first class, black swan, 127 hours and tree of life . ffe has already released or currently plans to release approximately 25 motion pictures in the united states in fiscal 2012, including rise of the planet of the apes, alvin and the chipmunks: chipwrecked!, we bought a zoo, prometheus, abraham lincoln: vampire hunter, another earth, martha marcy may marlene, the descendants and the best exotic marigold hotel. pursuant to an agreement with monarchy enterprises holdings b.v. ( meh ), the parent company of new regency in which the company has a 20% interest, and certain of meh subsidiaries, ffe distributes certain new regency films and all films co-financed by ffe and new regency in all media worldwide, excluding a number of international territories with respect to television rights. among its fiscal 2012 releases, ffe currently expects to distribute four films either fully financed by new regency or co-financed by ffe and new regency. motion picture companies, such as ffe, typically seek to generate revenues from various distribution channels. ffe derives its worldwide motion picture revenues primarily from four basic sources (set forth in general chronology of exploitation): (i) distribution of motion pictures for theatrical exhibition in the united states and canada and markets outside of the united states and canada ( international markets); (ii) distribution of motion pictures in various home media formats; (iii) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on pay-per-view, video-on-demand and premium pay television programming services; and (iv) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on free television networks, other broadcast program services, independent television stations and basic cable programming services, including certain services which are affiliates of the company. the company does not always have rights in all media of exhibition to all motion pictures that it releases, and does not necessarily distribute a given motion picture in all of the foregoing media in all markets. the company believes that the pre-release marketing of a feature film is an integral part of its motion picture distribution strategy and generally begins marketing efforts three to six months in advance of a film release date in any given territory. the company markets and distributes its films worldwide principally through its own distribution and marketing companies. through twentieth century fox home entertainment lcc, the company distributes motion pictures and other programming produced by units of ffe, its affiliates and other producers in the united states, canada and international markets in all home media formats, including the sale and rental of dvds and blu-rays. in fiscal 2011, the domestic home entertainment division released or re-released approximately 1,177 produced and acquired titles, including 25 new ffe film releases, approximately 819 catalog titles and approximately 333 television and non-theatrical titles. in international markets, the company distributed, produced and acquired titles both directly and through foreign distribution channels, with approximately 904 releases in fiscal 2011, including approximately 28 new ffe film releases, approximately 663 catalog titles and approximately 213 television and non-theatrical releases. in fiscal 2011, the company continued its worldwide home video distribution arrangement with metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ), releasing approximately 959 mgm home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs domestically and 662 internationally. the company also continued its domestic home video distribution arrangement with lions gate, releasing approximately 1,582 lions gate home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs. during fiscal 2011, the domestic 8 table of contents home entertainment division released 274 blu-ray titles, including 25 new ffe film releases, 210 catalog titles and 39 television and non-theatrical releases. in international markets, the company released 198 blu-ray titles, including 21 new ffe film releases and 177 catalog titles. the company also distributed 136 blu-ray titles from mgm domestically and 65 titles internationally, and 205 blu-ray titles from lions gate domestically. units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs in the united states, canada and international markets to various third party and certain affiliated subscription pay television, subscription video-on-demand, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services. the license agreements reflecting the subscription pay television arrangements generally provide for a specified number of exhibitions of the program during a fixed term in exchange for a license fee that is based on a variety of factors, including the box office performance of each program and the number of subscribers to the service or system. among third party license agreements that units of ffe have in place in the united states for television exhibition of their motion pictures are exclusive subscription pay television license agreements with hbo, providing for the licensing of films initially released for theatrical exhibition through 2015, as well as arrangements with starz encore group. the license agreements reflecting the pay-per-view and video-on-demand services arrangements generally provide for a license fee based on a percentage of the licensee gross receipts from the exhibition of the program, and in some cases, a guaranteed minimum fee. in addition, these agreements generally provide for a minimum number of scheduled pay-per-view exhibitions and a minimum video-on-demand exhibition period during a fixed term. units of ffe also license motion pictures in the united states to direct broadcast satellite ( dbs ) pay-per-view services operated by echostar communications corporation, as well as to pay-per-view and video-on-demand services operated by the directv group, inc. and in demand l.l.c. in addition, units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs to third parties, including apple inc. ( apple ) and amazon.com inc. ( amazon ), for electronic sell-through over the internet, enabling consumers in the united states to acquire the right to retain permanently such programs. in international markets, units of ffe license motion pictures and other programming to leading third party pay television, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services, as well as to pay television and video-on-demand services operated by various affiliated entities. competition . motion picture production and distribution are highly competitive businesses. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. the number of motion pictures released by the company competitors, particularly the other major film studios, in any given period may create an oversupply of product in the market, which may reduce the company shares of gross box office admissions and may make it more difficult for the company motion pictures to succeed. the commercial success of the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by the company is affected substantially by the public unpredictable response to them. the competitive risks affecting the company home entertainment business include the number of home entertainment titles released by the company competitors that may create an oversupply of product in the market, competition among home media formats, such as dvds and blu-rays, and other methods of distribution, such as video-on-demand services. the company faces ongoing risks associated with controlling unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs. for a further discussion of issues relating to unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs, see intellectual property. television programming, production and distribution twentieth century fox television ( tcftv ) . during fiscal 2011, tcftv produced television programs for the fox broadcasting company ( fox ), fx networks, llc ( fx ), abc television network ( abc ), cbs broadcasting, inc. ( cbs ), nbc television network ( nbc ), comedy partners ( comedy central ), showtime and arts &amp; entertainment network ( a&amp;e ). tcftv currently produces, or has orders to produce, episodes of the following television series: allen gregory, american dad , bob burgers , bones , the cleveland show , family guy , the finder, glee , napoleon dynamite , new girl, raising hope , the simpsons and terra nova for fox; sons of anarchy and american horror story for fx; apartment 23, last man standing and 9 table of contents modern family for abc; awake and the playboy club for nbc; how i met your mother for cbs; futurama for comedy central; homeland for showtime and breakout kings for a&amp;e. generally, a network will license a specified number of episodes for exhibition on the network during the license period. all other distribution rights, including international and off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by tcftv, utilized by other units of the company or sold to third parties. television programs generally are produced under contracts that provide for license fees that may cover only a portion of the anticipated production costs. as these costs have increased in recent years, the resulting deficit between production costs and license fees for domestic first-run programming also has increased. therefore, additional licensing is often critical to the financial success of a series. successful u.s. network television series are, for example, (i) licensed for first-run exhibition in canadian and international markets, (ii) released in dvd and blu-ray box sets, (iii) licensed for off-network exhibition in the united states (including in syndication and to cable programmers), (iv) licensed for further television exhibition in international markets and (v) made available for electronic sell-through and streaming, including individual episodes and full series. typically, a series must be broadcast for at least three to four television seasons for there to be a sufficient number of episodes to offer the series in syndication or to cable and dbs programmers in the united states. the decision of a television network to continue a series through an entire television season or to renew a series for another television season depends largely on the series audience ratings. twentieth television. twentieth television licenses both television programming and feature films for domestic syndication to television stations and basic cable services in the united states. twentieth television distributes a program portfolio that includes the company library of television and film assets, and first-run programming produced by its production companies for sales to local stations, including stations owned and operated by the company, as well as to basic cable networks. first-run programs distributed by twentieth television include: the game shows are you smarter than a 5 th grader? and don t forget the lyrics! ; and the court shows divorce court and judge alex . twentieth television derives revenue from off-network, theatrical and first-run program sales in the form of cash license fees paid by both broadcast and cable licensees, and from the sales of national advertising units retained by twentieth television in its programs. twentieth television licenses such shows as modern family, glee, how i met your mother , it always sunny in philadelphia , my name is earl , family guy , american dad, m*a*s*h, bones, and the simpsons to cable and broadcast networks. twentieth television also manages and distributes the long running series, cops and america most wanted , and sells national advertising on behalf of other third party syndicators. fox television studios ( ftvs ) . ftvs is a program supplier to the major u.s. and international broadcast and cable networks. ftvs is currently producing the series burn notice and white collar for usa network, the glades for a&amp;e, the killing for amc, kendra and holly world for e! and in the flow with affion crockett for fox. shine limited ( shine ). shine is an international television production and distribution group with 26 production companies across 12 countries creating and exploiting scripted and non-scripted content in the global marketplace. shine companies include award-winning genre specialists such as uk-based kudos (drama), dragonfly (factual), princess productions (entertainment) and multi-genre producer shine tv; independent u.s. producer reveille; and metronome film &amp; television, the nordic region largest production group. shine international, the international distribution arm, was responsible for distributing a catalogue of more than 3,000 hours of broadcast content in fiscal 2011. shine has also established businesses in germany, france, australia, spain and portugal. internationally renowned shows from the shine group include masterchef , the biggest loser , one born every minute , minute to win it and fantasy drama merlin . competition . similar to motion picture production and distribution, production and distribution of television programming is extremely competitive. the company competes with other film studios, independent production 10 table of contents companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. in addition, television networks have affiliated production companies from which they are increasingly obtaining their programming, which has reduced the demand for programming from other non-affiliated parties. motion picture and television library the company motion picture and television library (the fox library ) consists of varying rights to several thousand previously released motion pictures and many well-known television programs. motion pictures in the fox library include many successful and well-known titles, such as the sound of music , mrs. doubtfire , dr. dolittle , home alone , the star wars series, the x-men series, independence day, the day after tomorrow , the ice age series, sideways , walk the line , the devil wears prada , little miss sunshine , the night at the museum series, the alvin and the chipmunks series, slumdog millionaire and taken, as well as five of the top 15 domestic box office grossing films of all time, which are avatar , titanic (together with paramount pictures corporation), star wars episode iv: a new hope , star wars episode i: the phantom menace and star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith . the fox library contains varying rights to many television series and made-for-television motion pictures. the television programming in the fox library consists of such classic series as 24 , king of the hill , prison break , boston legal, my name is earl, the mary tyler moore show , m*a*s*h , hill street blues , doogie howser, m.d. , l.a. law , the wonder years , the practice , ally mcbeal , angel , dharma &amp; greg , in living color , the x-files , buffy the vampire slayer and nypd blue , as well as prior seasons of such current series as the simpsons , bones , family guy , the cleveland show , glee , modern family , futurama , how i met your mother , sons of anarchy and american dad . television the company is engaged in the operation of broadcast television stations and the broadcasting of network programming in the united states. fox television stations fox television stations, inc. ( fox television stations ) owns and operates 27 full power stations, including stations located in nine of the top ten largest designated market areas ( dmas ). fox television stations owns and operates two stations in nine dmas, including new york, los angeles and chicago, the first, second and third largest dmas, respectively. of the 27 full power stations, 17 stations are affiliates of fox ( fox affiliates ). for a description of the programming offered to fox affiliates, see fox broadcasting company. in addition, fox television stations owns and operates 10 stations affiliated with master distribution service, inc. ( mynetworktv ). 11 table of contents the following table lists certain information about each of the television stations owned and operated by fox television stations. unless otherwise noted, all stations are fox affiliates. fox television stations (1) dma/rank station digital channel (former analog channel) (2) type percentage of u.s. television households reached (3) new york, ny 1 wnyw 44 (5 ) uhf 6.5 % wwor (4) 38 (9 ) uhf los angeles, ca 2 kttv 11 (11 ) vhf 4.9 % kcop (4) 13 (13 ) vhf chicago, il 3 wfld 31 (32 ) uhf 3.0 % wpwr (4) 51 (50 ) uhf philadelphia, pa 4 wtxf 42 (29 ) uhf 2.6 % dallas, tx 5 kdfw 35 (4 ) uhf 2.2 % kdfi (4) 36 (27 ) uhf boston, ma 7 wfxt 31 (25 ) uhf 2.1 % atlanta, ga 8 waga 27 (5 ) uhf 2.1 % washington, dc 9 wttg 36 (5 ) uhf 2.1 % wdca (4) 35 (20 ) uhf houston, tx 10 kriv 26 (26 ) uhf 1.9 % ktxh (4) 19 (20 ) uhf detroit, mi 11 wjbk 7 (2 ) vhf 1.6 % phoenix, az 12 ksaz 10 (10 ) vhf 1.6 % kutp (4) 26 (45 ) uhf tampa, fl 14 wtvt 12 (13 ) vhf 1.5 % minneapolis, mn (5) 15 kmsp 9 (9 ) vhf 1.5 % wftc (4) 29 (29 ) uhf orlando, fl 19 wofl 22 (35 ) uhf 1.3 % wrbw (4) 41 (65 ) uhf baltimore, md 26 wutb (4) 41 (24 ) uhf 1.0 % austin, tx 44 ktbc 7 (7 ) vhf 0.6 % memphis, tn 48 whbq 13 (13 ) vhf 0.6 % gainesville, fl 160 wogx 31 (51 ) uhf 0.1 % total 37.2 % source: nielsen media research, january 2011 (1) the information presented in the table above reflects the 2009 conversion of fox television stations to all-digital broadcasts. for more information on the transition to digital broadcast, see government regulation television. (2) this column shows both the actual digital channel on which the fox television stations broadcast, as well as the analog channel (now called the virtual channel) on which they broadcast in the past. digital television receivers and set-top boxes will display the virtual channel (e.g., channel 5 for wnyw) as the channel being received and the fox television stations generally use the virtual channel for on-air branding. (3) vhf television stations transmit on channels 2 through 13 and uhf television stations on channels 14 through 51. the federal communications commission (the fcc ) applies a discount (the uhf discount ) which attributes only 50% of the television households in a local television market to the audience reach of a uhf television station for purposes of calculating whether that station owner complies with the national station ownership cap imposed by fcc regulations and by statute; in making this calculation, only the station actual (digital) broadcast channel is considered. in addition, the coverage of 12 table of contents two commonly owned stations in the same market is counted only once. the percentages listed are rounded and do not take into account the uhf discount. for more information regarding the fcc national station ownership cap, see government regulation television in this annual report. (4) mynetworktv affiliate. (5) the company also owns and operates full power station kftc, channel 26, bemidji, mn as a satellite station of wftc, channel 29, minneapolis, mn. station kftc is in addition to the 27 full power stations described in this section. fox broadcasting company ( fox ) fox has 203 fox affiliates, including the 17 stations owned and operated by the company, which reach approximately 99% of all u.s. television households. in general, each week fox regularly delivers to its affiliates 15 hours of prime-time programming and 90 minutes of late-night programming on saturday. fox prime-time programming features such series as house , the simpsons , bones , fringe and glee ; unscripted series such as american idol and so you think you can dance ; and various specials. in addition, a significant component of fox programming consists of sports programming, with fox providing to its affiliates live coverage (including post-season) of the national football conference of the national football league (the nfl ) and mlb, as well as live coverage of the sprint cup series of the nascar. fox also airs a two-hour block of direct response programming on saturday mornings provided by worldlink ventures ( worldlink ), a media sales firm. fox agreement with worldlink extends through the 2012-2013 broadcast season. fox prime-time line-up is intended to appeal primarily to target audiences of 18 to 49-year old adults, the demographic group that advertisers seek to reach most often. during the 2010-2011 traditional september to may broadcast season, fox ranked first in prime-time programming based on viewership of adults ages 18 to 49 (based on live+7 ratings, fox had a 3.5 rating and a 10 share, cbs had a 2.9 rating and an 8 share, abc had a 2.5 rating and a 7 share and nbc had a 2.3 rating and a 7 share). the median age of the fox viewer is 45 years, as compared to 49 years for nbc, 51 years for abc and 55 years for cbs. fox obtains programming from major television studios and independent television production companies pursuant to license agreements. the terms of those agreements generally provide fox with the right to broadcast a television series for a minimum of four seasons. national sports programming, such as the nfl, mlb and nascar programming, is obtained under license agreements with professional sports leagues or organizations. fox current licenses with the nfl, mlb and nascar extend until the 2013 nfl season, the 2013 mlb season and the 2014 nascar season. in addition, foxsports.com provides a comprehensive mix of news, exclusive analysis, fantasy games and one of the internet largest collections of online sports video. foxsports.com on msn had an average of 25 million unique users and 790 million page views in the united states during june 2011 according to comscore media metrix. fox provides programming to the fox affiliates in accordance with affiliation agreements of varying durations, which grant to each affiliate the right to broadcast network television programming on the affiliated station. such agreements typically run three or more years and have staggered expiration dates. these affiliation agreements generally require fox affiliates to carry fox programming in all time periods in which fox programming is offered to those affiliates, subject to certain exceptions stated in the affiliation agreements. mynetworktv at the beginning of the 2009-2010 television season, mynetworktv transitioned to a new programming distribution service, master distribution service, inc., distributing two hours per night of original and off- network programming from twentieth television and other third party syndicators to its affiliates. as of june 30, 2011, mynetworktv had 181 affiliates, including 10 stations owned and operated by the company, reaching approximately 97% of u.s. households. 13 table of contents competition. the network television broadcasting business is highly competitive. fox and mynetworktv compete with other broadcast networks, such as abc, nbc, cbs and the cw television network, independent television stations, cable and dbs program services, as well as other media, including dvds, blu-rays, digital video recorders ( dvr ), video games, print and the internet for audiences, programming and, in the case of fox, advertising revenues. in addition, fox and mynetworktv compete with other broadcast networks and other programming distribution services to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations in markets across the united states. abc, nbc and cbs each broadcasts a significantly greater number of hours of programming than fox and, accordingly, may be able to designate or change time periods in which programming is to be broadcast with greater flexibility than fox. in addition, future technological developments may affect competition within the television marketplace. each of the stations owned and operated by fox television stations also competes for advertising revenues with other television stations and radio and cable systems in its respective market area and with other advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail and internet websites. all of the stations owned and operated by fox television stations are located in highly competitive markets. additional elements that are material to the competitive position of each of the television stations include management experience, authorized power and assigned frequency of that station. competition for sales of broadcast advertising time is based primarily on the anticipated and actually delivered size and demographic characteristics of audiences as determined by various rating services, price, the time of day when the advertising is to be broadcast, competition from the other broadcast networks, cable television systems, dbs services and other media and general economic conditions. competition for audiences is based primarily on the selection of programming, the acceptance of which is dependent on the reaction of the viewing public, which is often difficult to predict. direct broadcast satellite television the company engages in the direct broadcast satellite business through its subsidiary, sky italia. the company also owns significant equity interests in bskyb and sky deutschland ag ( sky deutschland ), which are engaged in the dbs business (for a description of the businesses of these equity interests, please see discussion under heading equity interests ). sky italia sky italia currently distributes more than 175 channels of basic, premium and pay-per-view programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in italy. this programming includes exclusive rights to popular sporting events, newly-released movies and sky italia original programming, such as sky tg 24 , italy first 24-hour news channel. as of june 30, 2011, sky italia had approximately 4.97 million subscribers. competition . the number of pay television subscribers with services in italy, other than sky italia, is growing and is expected to continue to increase. sky italia competition includes companies that offer video, audio, interactive programming, telephony, data and other information and entertainment services, including broadband internet providers, digital terrestrial transmission ( dtt ) services, wireless companies and companies that are developing new media technologies. competition is encouraged through the regulatory environment that requires sky italia to wholesale its premium programming, to limit the length and exclusivity of certain of its premium programming contracts and to provide third parties with access to the sky italia platform. in addition, since 2003, sky italia had been prohibited from owning a dtt frequency or providing a pay television dtt offer under a commitment made to the european commission (the ec ) through december 31, 2011. in july 2010, the ec modified this restriction to allow sky italia to bid for one dtt frequency. however, if sky italia were to successfully bid for such a dtt frequency, the ec would limit sky italia use of such frequency to exclusively free-to-air channels for five years subsequent to its acquisition. for a further discussion of the government regulations to which sky italia is subject, see government regulation cable network programming and direct broadcast satellite television. 14 table of contents publishing the company is engaged in the publishing business, primarily through its subsidiaries news international, news limited, dow jones, the new york post, the daily, harper collins publishers and news america marketing group. the company evaluates these businesses collectively as a result of evolving trends in the overall publishing industry including digital distribution. news international news international publishes the times , the sunday times , the sun and, until july 2011, news of the world in the united kingdom and ireland. sales of these four newspapers account for approximately one-third of all national newspapers sold in the united kingdom. both the times , a daily published monday through saturday, and the sunday times, are leading quality newspapers. the sun , published each morning monday through saturday is a popular, mass market newspaper, as was news of the world , which until july 10, 2011 was published on sunday. the average paid circulation for each of these four national newspapers for the six months ended june 30, 2011 was approximately: the times 440,581; the sunday times 1,000,848; the sun 2,806,746; and news of the world 2,667,428. news international is addressing new media challenges through the introduction of paywalls around its newspaper website and is focusing on innovative solution deals and payment by results advertising to boost advertising revenues. on july 7, 2011, news international announced that july 10, 2011 would be the last issue of news of the world after allegations of phone hacking and inappropriate payments to police officers by employees or contractors at news of the world . the printing of news international national newspapers (except saturday and sunday supplements) takes place principally in its printing facilities located in england, scotland and ireland. news international also publishes the times literary supplement , a weekly literary review. news limited news limited is the largest newspaper publisher in australia by readership and circulation, owning approximately 146 daily, sunday, weekly, bi-weekly and tri-weekly newspapers, of which three are free commuter titles and 102 are suburban publications (including 16 of which news limited has a 50% interest). news limited publishes the only nationally distributed general interest newspaper in australia, the leading metropolitan newspapers in each of the major australian cities of sydney, melbourne, brisbane, adelaide, perth, hobart and darwin and the leading suburban newspapers in the suburbs of sydney, melbourne, adelaide, brisbane and perth. news limited daily and sunday newspapers account for more than 69% of the total circulation of all daily and sunday newspapers (excluding suburban and regional newspapers) published in australia. news limited principal daily newspapers in australia are: the australian; the daily telegraph , published in sydney; the herald sun , published in melbourne; the courier-mail, published in brisbane; the advertiser , published in adelaide; the mercury , published in hobart; and the northern territory news , published in darwin. the australian , which is australia only general interest national daily newspaper, is printed in seven cities and distributed nationwide. news limited other principal daily newspapers in australia are mass circulation, regional newspapers with broad-based readerships and are published and distributed regionally. the average monday to friday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers during fiscal 2011 was approximately as follows: the australian 133,000; the daily telegraph 358,000; the herald sun 499,000; the courier-mail 205,000; the advertiser 180,000; the mercury 44,000; and the northern territory news 20,000. the average saturday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers during fiscal 2011 was approximately as follows: the weekend australian 297,000; the daily telegraph 330,000; the herald sun 494,000; the courier-mail 282,000; the advertiser 243,000; the mercury 61,000; and the northern territory news 31,000. 15 table of contents news limited principal sunday newspapers in australia are: the sunday telegraph , published in sydney; the sunday herald sun , published in melbourne; the sunday mail, published in brisbane; the sunday mail , published in adelaide; the sunday times , published in perth; the sunday tasmanian , published in hobart; and the sunday territorian, published in darwin. all these newspapers are mass circulation, metropolitan sunday newspapers with broad-based readerships reflecting the diversity of the populations of the cities in which they are published. the average paid circulation of each of these sunday newspapers during fiscal 2011 was approximately as follows: the sunday telegraph 627,000; the sunday herald sun 585,000; the sunday mail (brisbane ) 503,000; the sunday mail (adelaide) 294,000; the sunday times 296,000; the sunday tasmanian 58,000; and the sunday territorian 21,000. the other newspapers that news limited owns and publishes in australia are distributed to a wide range of readers in urban, suburban and rural areas and are principally weekly publications. the majority of such newspapers are free-distribution suburban publications. in the sydney suburban markets, news limited owns 21 weekly newspapers; in melbourne, 33 weekly newspapers; in brisbane, 21 weekly newspapers; in adelaide, 11 weekly newspapers; and in perth, news limited 50% owned suburban group publishes 16 weekly newspapers. the aggregate average weekly circulations of these suburban newspapers for the six months ended march 31, 2011 was approximately 5,125,000 homes. in addition to these newspapers, news limited also publishes two other monthly publications with an average circulation for the six months ended march 31, 2011 of approximately 99,000 homes. news limited suburban newspapers are leading publications in terms of advertising and circulation in each of their respective markets. news limited other newspapers in australia are regional newspapers, circulating throughout broader, less densely populated areas. except for 30 of its suburban newspapers, news limited australian newspapers are produced and printed in facilities owned by the company. dow jones dow jones is a global provider of news and business information, with newspaper, newswire, website, newsletter, magazine, database, conference, radio and video businesses. dow jones offers products targeting both individual consumer and business and institutional customers, including the wall street journal , dow jones newswires, factiva, barron , marketwatch, smartmoney and other products. products targeting business and institutional customers, including dow jones newswires and factiva, combine news and information with technology and tools designed to inform decisions and to aid awareness, research and understanding. the dow jones local media business publishes community newspapers, websites and other products in seven u.s. states. the wall street journal . the wall street journal is available in print, online at wsj.com, and on mobile devices such as smart phones, e-readers and tablets. the wall street journal is the leading circulation daily newspaper in the united states, with average print and digital circulation in fiscal 2011 of more than 2.1 million. wsj.com has more than 1.0 million paid subscribers as of june 30, 2011. wsj.com, which offers both free and premium content, also averaged more than 28 million visitors per month during fiscal 2011 according to adobe omniture. the wall street journal three major national print editions are produced at plants around the united states, including 10 owned by the company. the wall street journal sells regional advertising in 19 regional print editions and pre-printed advertisements in various subsets of the print circulation. the wall street journal also publishes a regional edition for the new york city area called greater new york . barron . barron is available in print, online at barrons.com, and on mobile devices. barron caters to financial professionals, individual investors and others interested in financial markets. its print edition is published weekly. in fiscal 2011, barron had an average paid weekly circulation of nearly 305,000 and barrons.com had more than 154,000 paid subscribers. barron print edition is produced at plants around the united states, including at 10 owned by the company. 16 table of contents smartmoney . smartmoney publishes news and information focusing on personal finance, and is available in print, online at smartmoney.com, and on mobile devices. the print edition of smartmoney is published monthly. in fiscal 2011, smartmoney had average monthly paid circulation of more than 800,000. the wall street journal digital network ( wsjdn ). wsjdn comprises business and financial news websites and mobile applications. in addition to wsj.com, barrons.com and smartmoney.com, discussed above, wsjdn includes marketwatch, allthingsd.com and related sites. in fiscal 2011, wsjdn averaged more than 42 million visitors per month with more than 480 million page views according to adobe omniture. marketwatch comprises an investing and financial news site targeting active investors and related sites, and averaged more than 10 million visitors per month during fiscal 2011 according to adobe omniture. allthingsd.com is a personal technology site that features breaking technology news, in-depth coverage of silicon valley and the media industry, and product reviews and analysis. international editions of the wall street journal . the wall street journal europe print edition, which had an average circulation of more than 77,000 during fiscal 2011, is headquartered in london and printed in belgium, germany, italy, spain, switzerland, turkey and the united kingdom. the wall street journal asia print edition, which had an average circulation of more than 82,000 during fiscal 2011, is headquartered in hong kong and printed in hong kong, india, indonesia, japan, malaysia, the philippines, singapore, south korea, taiwan and thailand. regional coverage from the wall street journal europe and the wall street journal asia is also available online at wsj.com. dow jones also publishes the wall street journal special editions , which provide wall street journal pages and/or content in local languages. factiva. factiva provides news and business information with search and discovery technology and tools to assist business and institutional customers with research, awareness and decision-making. factiva had over 1.9 million paying customers worldwide as of june 30, 2011. dow jones newswires. dow jones newswires is a premier provider of real-time business news and information to financial professionals and online investors around the world via terminals, portals and intranet sites with hundreds of thousands of financial professionals and millions of online investors relying on this information each trading day. it publishes over 15,000 news items in multiple languages each day, including breaking news, analysis, commentary and statistical data. dow jones local media. the dow jones local media business publishes local media print publications, including eight general interest dailies in california, maine, massachusetts, new hampshire, new york, oregon and pennsylvania, and related local websites. in fiscal 2011, average print and digital circulation for these dailies was more than 201,000, with sunday print and digital circulation of over 240,000. the dow jones local media business also publishes 13 weekly newspapers, performs commercial printing at its five printing locations and offers other products and services. other products and distribution channels. dow jones venturesource, which targets business and institutional customers, is a database for venture capital and private equity markets tracking key developments of more than 69,000 venture-backed and private equity-backed companies world-wide, with details on more than 9,000 active investors. dow jones watchlist helps compliance professionals identify high-risk clients and business associates. the efinancialnews business, based in london, serves the european financial services industry with print, online, training and events businesses. the wall street journal professional edition provides business and professional readers with specialized and targeted news and information. dow jones also distributes news and information to individual consumers through other channels of content distribution, including: television, radio/audio, online video, consumer electronic licensing, the wall street journal classroom, campus and sunday editions, and wsj.magazine. dow jones also owns an interest in vedomosti , a joint venture owned equally by dow jones, pearson plc and independent media, which publishes a russian language business daily. 17 table of contents new york post the new york post (the post ) is a mass circulation, metropolitan morning newspaper published seven days a week and primarily distributed in the new york metropolitan area, the northeast, florida and california. for the fiscal year ended june 30, 2011, average weekday circulation, including digital editions, was approximately 520,000. the company prints the post in a printing facility in the bronx, new york and uses third party printers in its other markets in the united states. the company community newspaper group also owns several local newspapers and other publications distributed in the new york metropolitan area. the daily the daily is a first-of-its-kind daily national news publication built exclusively as an application for tablet computing. the daily is a subscription-based news product, published daily. the daily launched on the ipad in february 2011 and as of june 30, 2011 has been downloaded more than 1 million times from the itunes app store. harper collins publishers harpercollins publishers ( harpercollins ) is engaged in english language book publishing on a worldwide basis and is one of the world largest english language book publishers. harpercollins principal businesses are harpercollins publishers llc ( harpercollins u.s. ), headquartered in new york, harpercollins publishers limited, headquartered in london, and the zondervan corporation llc, headquartered in grand rapids, michigan. harpercollins primarily publishes fiction and non-fiction, including religious books, for the general consumer. in the united kingdom, harpercollins publishes some titles for the educational market as well. during fiscal 2011, harpercollins u.s. had 166 titles on the new york times bestseller list, with 18 titles hitting number one, including sh*t my dad says by justin halpern, straight talk, no chaser by steve harvey, red by sammy hagar, just kids by patti smith, the happiness project by gretchen rubin, tribal leadership by dave logan, john king &amp; halee fischer-wright, pretty little liars by sara shepard, i am number four by pittacus lore, silverlicious by victoria kann, beastly by alex flinn, knuffle bunny free by mo willems, beezus and ramona, movie tie-in edition by beverly cleary, fancy nancy: ooh la la! it beauty day by jane o connor, charlie the ranch dog by ree drummond, scaredy-cat, splat! by rob scotton, my mommy hung the moon by jamie lee curtis, the vampire diaries: stefan diaries: vol. 1 origins by l.j. smith, kevin williamson &amp; julie plec, and fancy nancy: stellar stargazer! by jane o connor. news america marketing group news america marketing group ( namg ) publishes free-standing insert publications and provides in-store marketing products and services. namg is one of the two largest publishers of free-standing inserts in the united states. free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, rebates and other consumer offers, which are distributed to consumers through insertion primarily into local sunday newspapers. advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay namg to produce free-standing inserts, and namg contracts with and pays newspapers to include the free-standing inserts primarily into the newspapers sunday editions. namg produces approximately 74 million free-standing inserts more than 40 times a year, which are inserted in approximately 1,600 sunday newspapers throughout the united states. namg, through an affiliate, also produces over eight million free-standing inserts approximately 15 times annually, which are inserted into over 200 canadian newspapers in canada. 18 table of contents namg is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged goods manufacturers, with products in more than 55,000 supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, office supply stores and mass merchandisers worldwide. smartsource &reg; is the brand name that is linked with namg vast assortment of marketing products, including, among others, free-standing inserts, namg instant coupon machines and various shelf advertising products. the smartsource &reg; brand currently reaches approximately 158 million consumers weekly. the smartsource igroup manages namg portfolio of database and electronic marketing solutions. the database marketing business, branded smartsource direct, provides direct mail solutions via its national network of retailer frequent shopper card databases. smartsource direct frequent shopper card database accesses the purchase behavior of more than 100 million cardholders. the smartsource savings network, which includes smartsource.com, encompasses all of namg electronic couponing and sampling solutions accessed through the web, mobile and tablet-based programming and reaches an audience of more than 85 million consumers. competition the newspapers, magazines and online publications of the company that target individual consumers compete for readership and advertising with a variety of print and digital media. the competition includes local and national newspapers, as well as wholly web-based media, along with television, radio and other communications media. competition for newspaper circulation is based on the news and editorial content of the newspaper, cover price and, from time to time, various promotions. the success of the newspapers published by the company in competing with newspapers and other media for advertising depends upon advertisers judgments as to the most effective use of their advertising budgets. competition for advertising among newspapers is based upon circulation levels, readership levels and demographics, advertising rates and advertiser results. such judgments are based on factors such as cost, availability of alternative media, circulation and quality of readership demographics. in recent years, the newspaper industry has experienced difficulty increasing or maintaining circulation volume and revenues. this is due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media formats and sources, and shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news from sources other than a newspaper. new channels for distributing news and other content to consumers could impact performance, positively or negatively. smart phones and tablet computers and the applications associated with both have the potential to introduce new or different pricing schemes and/or affect the relationship between publisher and customer. the company believes that competition from new media formats and sources and shifting consumer preferences will continue to pose challenges within the newspaper industry. online publications, as well as print publications, compete with other websites that offer continuously updated coverage of business news, as well as licensing of electronic content. competitors of dow jones online publications include ft.com, new york times digital, thestreet.com, bloomberg, forbes.com, yahoo!finance, cnet, cnn money, msnmoney/cnbc and google finance. dow jones newswires competes with other global financial newswires, including thomson reuters and bloomberg l.p., as well as many internet-based providers of financial news and information. factiva competes with various business information service providers, including lexisnexis, thomson reuters, hoover and onesource. factiva also competes with various internet-based information search services such as those offered by google, microsoft and yahoo!. the book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market that is quickly changing and continues to see technological innovations, including electronic book devices sold by amazon, apple and 19 table of contents barnes &amp; noble. harpercollins competes with other large publishers, such as random house, penguin group, simon &amp; schuster and hachette livre, as well as with numerous smaller publishers, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities. in addition, harpercollins competes for readership with other media formats and sources. namg competes against other providers of marketing products and services, including those that provide promotional or advertising inserts and direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, as well as those that provide trade and in-store advertisements and promotions. competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of traditional and digital markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, and rate of coupon redemption. other digital media businesses the company digital media businesses include ign entertainment, inc. ( ign ), and other internet properties and, until june 29, 2011, myspace. these businesses develop and promote content and experiences for internet audiences and generate revenue through internet advertising, sponsorships, subscriptions and e-commerce. on june 29, 2011, the company sold myspace, including its stake in myspace music, llc, to specific media, a digital media company, and received a minority equity stake in specific media in connection with the sale. ign network of video game, lifestyle and entertainment-related internet properties represent many of the top web properties in their respective categories across the internet. ign games sites (ign.com, 1up, gamespy, fileplanet, teamxbox and others) is the number one gaming information network on the internet with over 12.9 million unique users and 244 million page views in the united states in june 2011 according to comscore media metrix. ign gamespy technology group provides technology for online game play in video games. ign also owns and operates one of the leading men lifestyle websites, askmen.com. in may 2011, ign acquired ugo entertainment, inc., which owns the ugo.com and 1up.com men lifestyle and video gaming sites, from hearst corporation in exchange for a minority ownership stake in ign. also in may 2011, ign sold its direct2drive digital distribution site to gamefly, inc. ( gamefly ), a leading video game rental service, for a minority ownership stake in gamefly. making fun, inc. ( making fun ) is a social games developer and publisher acquired in december 2010. making fun makes games for various platforms, including facebook, android, and ios, and has launched its first games with additional ones in development. competition . these digital media businesses compete for advertisers, users and traffic with other internet sites and offline entertainment and advertising options. these businesses develop new tools and features to remain competitive. these new tools and features are key competitive factors in keeping users engaged with these digital media businesses. news outdoor in july 2011, the company sold its majority interest in its outdoor advertising businesses in russia and romania. this transaction completed the company divestment of its outdoor advertising business, with the exception of news outdoor czech republic, for which the company is currently exploring its strategic options, including the possible sale of this business. the company previously sold its majority interest in its outdoor advertising businesses in the ukraine and poland in may 2011 and october 2010, respectively. 20 table of contents wireless generation in the third quarter of fiscal 2011, the company acquired wireless generation, an educational technology company providing mobile and web software, data systems and professional services that enable teachers to use data to assess student progress and deliver individualized instruction. it serves more than 200,000 teachers and three million students across all 50 states. other operations the company has interests in fox tv in turkey and channel 10 in israel, which are free-to-air, general entertainment television stations. news digital media is the company australian online division. in addition to maintaining the company australian websites, news digital media is responsible for online advertising and transactions in australia. news digital media sites include carsguide.com.au, news.com.au, moshtix.com.au, getprice.com.au and truelocal.com.au. news digital media also has a 50% stake in careerone.com.au. equity interests bskyb the company holds an approximate 39% interest in bskyb. bskyb ordinary shares are listed on the london stock exchange under the symbol bsy . bskyb operates the leading pay television broadcast service in the united kingdom and ireland, as well as broadband and telephony services. bskyb acquires and commissions programming to broadcast on its own channels and supplies certain of those channels to cable operators for retransmission by the cable operators to their subscribers in the united kingdom and ireland. bskyb also retails channels (both its own and those of third parties) to dth subscribers and to certain of its own channels to a limited number of dsl subscribers. in june 2010, the company announced that it had proposed to the board of directors of bskyb to make a cash offer of 700 pence per share for the bskyb shares that the company does not already own. following the allegations regarding news of the world, on july 13, 2011, the company announced that it no longer intended to make an offer for the bskyb shares that the company does not already own. as a result of the july 2011 announcement, the company paid bskyb a breakup fee of approximately $63 million in accordance with a cooperation agreement between the parties. nds the company holds an approximate 49% interest in nds. nds creates technologies and applications that enable pay television operators to deliver digital content to televisions, set-top boxes, dvrs, personal computers, portable media players, removable media and other mobile devices securely. foxtel the company, telstra corporation limited, an australian telecommunications company, and consolidated media holdings, an australian media and entertainment company, own and operate foxtel, a cable and satellite television service in australia with 25%, 50% and 25% interests, respectively. at june 30, 2011, foxtel had approximately 1.65 million managed subscribers (including subscribers to optus, an australian telecommunications company). at june 30, 2011, 100% of the foxtel managed subscriber base was connected to foxtel digital service, which delivers over 180 channels on cable and satellite. other investments skynz. the company owns an approximate 44% interest in sky network television limited, a land-linked uhf network and digital dbs service in new zealand. 21 table of contents hulu . the company has an approximate 32% equity interest in hulu, llc ( hulu ) which operates an online video service that offers video content from fox, nbc universal, the walt disney company and over 100 other third party content licensors. hulu premium programming is available free of charge to viewers at hulu.com and over 40 destination sites online, including aol, imdb, msn, myspace and yahoo!. additional premium programming is available on a monthly subscription basis at hulu.com and through software applications on internet-connected devices, including smart phones, tablets, gaming consoles and set-top boxes. sky deutschland . the company owns a 49.9% equity interest in sky deutschland, the leading pay television operator in germany and austria. the core business of sky deutschland is subscription pay-tv and it offers a wide range of programming in germany and austria and can be received via teleclub in switzerland. sky deutschland program offering includes current feature films, new series, children channels, documentaries and live sports, such as the german bundesliga and uefa champions league. sky deutschland has market leading hd offering with 27 hd channels, and an additional service called sky go which is available on the web, iphone and ipad. in fiscal 2011, the company agreed to backstop 400 million (approximately $525 million) of financing measures that were being initiated by sky deutschland of which approximately 342 million (approximately $450 million) has been completed. as part of these financing measures, the company acquired 108 million additional shares of sky deutschland. the aggregate cost of the shares acquired by the company was approximately 115 million (approximately $150 million) and the shares were newly registered shares issued pursuant to the total capital increase. in addition, in accordance with the backstop, the company agreed with sky deutschland to subscribe to a bond issuance that is convertible for up to 53.9 million underlying sky deutschland shares. the convertible bond was issued to the company in january 2011 for approximately 165 million (approximately $225 million). the company currently has the right to convert the bond into equity, subject to certain black-out periods. if not converted, the company will have the option to redeem the bond for cash upon its maturity in four years. the remaining amount under the backstop of approximately 58 million (approximately $75 million), must be funded prior to december 2011 and will be provided as a shareholder loan to the extent sky deutschland does not generate other proceeds through capital increases or convertible bond issuances. the company has also agreed to loan sky deutschland approximately $70 million to support the launch of a sports news channel. the company expects to fund these amounts in fiscal 2012. cmc-news asia. in fiscal 2011, the company transferred the equity and related assets of its star china business along with the fortune star chinese movie library with a combined market value of approximately $140 million to cmc-news asia holdings limited ( cmc-news asia ), a joint venture with china media capital, a media investment fund in china, and china media capital paid cash of approximately $74 million to the company. the company holds an approximate 47% interest in cmc-news asia. cmc-news asia develops and broadcasts the chinese language xing kong and channel [v] china channels primarily in china on a free-to-air basis to local cable operators in southern china and three-star and above hotels and other approved organizations and institutions, and sells television, new media, home video and other rights to its extensive contemporary chinese film library comprised of over 750 titles. government regulation general various aspects of the company activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. the company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations described herein. the introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the company products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the interests of the company. 22 table of contents cable network programming and direct broadcast satellite television united states. fcc regulations adopted pursuant to the cable television consumer protection and competition act of 1992 (the program access rules ) prevent a cable operator that has an attributable interest (including voting or non-voting stock ownership of 5% or more or limited partnership equity interests of 5% or more) in a programming vendor from exercising undue or improper influence over the vendor in its dealings with competitors to cable. the program access rules also prohibit a cable programmer in which a cable operator has an attributable interest from entering into exclusive contracts with any cable operator or from discriminating among competing multichannel video programming distributors in the price, terms and conditions of sale or delivery of programming. the cable networks operated by the company are not currently subject to the program access rules. asia. the company broadcasts television programming over a footprint covering approximately 53 asian countries. most countries in which the company operates have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. government regulation of direct reception and redistribution via cable or other means of satellite television signals, where it is addressed at all, is treated differently in each country. at one extreme are absolute bans on private ownership of satellite receiving equipment. some countries, however, have adopted a less restrictive approach, opting to allow ownership of satellite receiving equipment by certain institutions and individuals but allowing them to receive only authorized broadcasts. at the opposite end of the spectrum are countries where private satellite dish ownership is allowed and laws and regulations have been adopted which support popular access to satellite services through local cable redistribution. most television services within asia, whether free-to-air or pay television, are also subject to licensing requirements. in addition, most countries in which the company operates control the content offered by local broadcast operators through censorship requirements to which program suppliers, such as the company, are subject. certain countries also require a minimum percentage of local content. other countries require local broadcast operators to obtain government approval to retransmit foreign programming. additional categories of regulation of actual or potential significance to the company are restrictions on foreign investment in distribution platforms, television programming production, limitations on exclusive arrangements for channel distribution and non-discrimination requirements for supply or carriage of programming and anti-competition or anti-trust legislation. such restrictions are different in each country. india. in india, private satellite dish ownership, including dth, is allowed. television viewers receive broadcast television signals primarily through terrestrial and cable delivery and, in more recent years, through dth and iptv delivery. terrestrial broadcasting remains the domain of government-owned broadcast stations. all cable television operators are required to carry certain government-operated channels. retransmissions of foreign satellite channels, such as star india channels, are permitted, subject to licensing requirements and compliance with local applicable laws, including programming and advertisement codes. the indian government requires that all cinematograph film and media content, whether produced in india or abroad, be certified by the central board of film certification prior to exhibition in india and also places certain restrictions on advertising content. limits are imposed by the indian government on the increase in the year-on-year prices payable by cable operators to broadcasters for all pay and free-to-air channels, including the company channels. further, certain areas have been notified for pay channels to be compulsorily provided through conditional access systems where cable operators are required to provide such channels at a capped retail price, of which the broadcasters share is restricted to 45%. the wholesale and retail pricing tariffs are presently under review consequent to intervention by the indian courts. while there is no tariff regulation for dth at retail level, broadcasters are required to offer their channels to dth platforms at 42% of the rates charged to analogue cable operators pursuant to an interim order by the supreme court of india. broadcasters are also required to provide their channels on non-discriminatory terms to all distributors if no carriage charges are being sought from broadcasters. 23 table of contents china . in mainland china, private satellite dish ownership is prohibited except with special approval for hotels and, government and foreign institutions that can receive only authorized broadcasts. there is a quota on the amount of foreign content that local television stations may broadcast. foreign satellite channels are not subject to such content restriction but they may only be distributed in three-star and above hotels and other approved organizations and institutions that are allowed to receive overseas satellite television channels or by local operators that have received special approval to retransmit foreign satellite channels. in addition, local operators may only broadcast and transmit channels that carry content that falls within the genre of the government approval or license. taiwan. in taiwan, private satellite dish ownership is allowed. the maximum subscription fee chargeable by cable television operators is set by both the national and local governments. cable television operators offer analog basic channels in a single package and digital premium channels in packages or on an &agrave; la carte basis as a buy through to their basic analog service. all channels offered in taiwan must be licensed. retransmission of foreign satellite programming by local cable operators is permitted, but local cable operators are also required to carry terrestrial channels and broadcast a minimum percentage of local content. latin america. the company broadcasts television programming throughout approximately 18 latin american countries, as well as the caribbean. certain countries in which the company operates have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. these regulations vary in each country as does their impact on the company business. regulations of actual or potential significance to the company include those in argentina, where the government has required pay tv operators to carry certain government operated channels, has imposed restrictions on the ability to effectuate price increases on rates charged to pay tv operators, has reduced by half the available advertising inventory on the channels and has imposed a withholding tax on advertisers purchasing advertising inventory on international channels. in brazil, legislation is under consideration that creates quotas for both local production by international pay tv programmers and local channels for pay tv operators and imposes restrictions on advertising time. europe. the sectors in which the company operates in europe are subject to both general competition laws and sector specific regulation. the regulatory regime applicable to the electronic communications and broadcasting sectors is, to a large extent, based on european union ( eu ) law comprised in various eu directives that require eu member states to adopt national legislation to give effect to the directives objectives, while leaving the precise manner and form of the national legislation to the discretion of each member state. the electronic communications directives regulate the provision of communication services, including networks and transmission services that are involved in the broadcasting of television services as well as the provisions of services and facilities associated with the operation of digital television platforms. the audiovisual media services directive sets out the basic principles for the regulation of television broadcasting activity, including broadcasting licensing, advertising and content regulation. in connection with the company acquisition of telepi&ugrave; spa and stream spa to form sky italia in 2003, the ec placed certain regulatory restrictions on the operations of sky italia through december 31, 2011. these restrictions require sky italia to wholesale its premium programming, to limit the length and exclusivity of certain of its premium programming contracts and to provide third parties with access to the sky italia platform. in addition, sky italia was prohibited from providing a pay television dtt offer and was prohibited from owning a dtt frequency. in july 2010, the ec modified this restriction to allow sky italia to bid for one dtt frequency. however, if sky italia were to successfully bid for such a dtt frequency, the ec would limit sky italia use of such frequency to exclusively free-to-air channels through 2015. filmed entertainment united states. ffe is subject to the provisions of so-called trade practice laws in effect in 25 states relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. these laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain 24 table of contents instances, also prohibit payment of advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by exhibitors. further, pursuant to various consent judgments, ffe and certain other motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on their trade practices in the united states, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis and, in some cases, a prohibition against the ownership of theaters. other international regulation. in countries outside of the united states, there are a variety of existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations that may affect the ability of ffe to distribute and/or license its motion picture and television products to cinema, television or in-home media, including copyright laws and regulations that may or may not be adequate to protect its interests, cinema screen quotas, television quotas, contract term limitations, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of u.s. products. the ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements, including the world trade organization general agreement on tariffs and trade and general agreement on trade and services; however, these agreements have limited application with respect to preventing the denial of market access to audio-visual products originating outside the european union. television in general, the television broadcast industry in the united states is highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc regulates television broadcasting, and certain aspects of the operations of cable, satellite and other electronic media that compete with broadcasting, pursuant to the communications act of 1934, as amended (the communications act ). the communications act permits the operation of television broadcast stations only in accordance with a license issued by the fcc upon a finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. the fcc grants television broadcast station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms. under the communications act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum permitted term of eight years. generally, the fcc renews broadcast licenses upon finding that: (i) the television station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. after considering these factors, the fcc may grant the license renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted, or hold an evidentiary hearing. fox television stations has pending renewal applications for a number of its television station licenses. seven of the pending applications have been opposed by third parties. on june 13, 2007 and may 15, 2008, fox television stations entered into agreements with the fcc that preclude it from objecting, on the grounds that such action is barred by certain statutes of limitations, to fcc or other governmental action relating to (i) petitions to deny or complaints that have been filed against several owned and operated stations relating to programming that is alleged to violate the prohibition against indecent broadcasts or (ii) inquiries from the fcc regarding compliance with its sponsorship identification rules. for information on the television stations owned and operated by the company, see fox television stations above. on june 12, 2009, all full-power broadcast television stations were required to cease transmission in analog and convert to all digital broadcasts ( dtv ). by that date, the 27 stations owned and operated by fox television stations terminated their analog transmissions and, as required by law, each station surrendered one of the two broadcast channels it had been allotted in order to facilitate the transition to dtv. all fox television stations continue to transmit digital signals on their remaining channels. under fcc rules, television stations may use their digital channel to broadcast hd digital programming and multicast several streams of standard definition digital programming and/or offer mobile digital television channels. broadcasters may also deliver data over these channels, provided that the supplemental services do not derogate the mandated, free-to-air 25 table of contents program service. in april 2010, fox television stations and eleven other major broadcast station group owners formed mobile content venture ( mcv ), a joint venture to develop a new national mobile content service utilizing the stations digital broadcast spectrum. mcv is expected to launch in 32 markets by the end of 2011. in march 2010, the fcc delivered its national broadband plan to congress, which reviews the nation broadband internet infrastructure and recommends a number of initiatives to spur broadband deployment and use. in order to free up more spectrum for wireless broadband services, the broadband plan proposes to make spectrum available, including 120 megahertz of broadcast spectrum, by incentivizing current private-sector spectrum holders to return some of their spectrum to the government by 2015 through such initiatives as voluntary incentive spectrum auctions (with current licensees permitted to share in the auction proceeds) and repacking of channel assignments to increase efficient spectrum usage. if voluntary measures fail to yield the amount of spectrum the fcc deems necessary for wireless broadband deployment, the broadband plan proposes various mandates to reclaim spectrum, such as forced channel sharing. the broadcast industry is exploring additional uses for currently allocated spectrum, such as the mobile delivery of digital video and print content contemplated by mcv, to demonstrate that broadcasters need to retain all of their spectrum in order to bring valuable services to consumers. on november 30, 2010, the fcc launched a rulemaking designed to lay the foundation for eventual repurposing of portions of the broadcast spectrum for wireless broadband services. some of the broadband plan proposals, such as voluntary incentive auctions, also require congressional action. on june 8, 2011, the senate commerce committee approved legislation that would authorize the fcc to conduct auctions of spectrum a broadcaster relinquishes voluntarily. the bill would give the fcc the discretion to disburse a portion of any auction proceeds to the relinquishing licensee and would establish a fund to reimburse the reasonable costs of broadcasters that are relocated to a different channel due to reallocation or repacking of channel assignments. similar legislation has been introduced in the house of representatives. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of implementation of the broadband plan, whether related legislation will be enacted into law, or the effect of the broadband plan or congressional action on the company. on june 2, 2003, the fcc concluded the 2002 biennial review of its broadcast ownership regulations required by the 1996 telecom act by amending its rules governing the ownership of television and radio stations and by replacing its newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership ban and the radio/television cross-ownership restriction with a new set of cross-media ownership limits (the june 2003 order ). in the consolidated appropriations act of 2004, congress increased the national television station ownership cap to permit an entity to have an attributable ownership interest in an unlimited number of television stations nationally, so long as the audience reach of those stations does not exceed, in the aggregate and after the application of the uhf discount, 39% of u.s. television households. several parties appealed the june 2003 order. the united states court of appeals for the third circuit (the third circuit ) stayed the effectiveness of the new rules and, on june 24, 2004, remanded the fcc june 2003 order for additional justification or modification of the revisions the fcc had made to its ownership regulations. on february 4, 2008, the fcc issued an order that concluded its 2006 review of its broadcast ownership regulations and addressed the issues raised by the third circuit remand (the february 2008 order ). the fcc decided there should be no changes to its multiple ownership rules relating to the ownership of more than one television station in the same market. those rules (i) permit the ownership of two television stations with overlapping coverage areas if the stations are in separate dmas; and (ii) permit the ownership of two stations in the same dma if their grade b coverage areas do not overlap or if eight independently owned full power television stations will remain in the dma after the stations that had been independently owned become commonly owned, and one of the merged stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. the fcc modified its rule prohibiting common ownership of a broadcast station and a newspaper in the same market to allow such combinations in certain situations. the february 2008 order was appealed by several parties, including the company. on july 7, 2011, the third circuit affirmed the fcc decision to retain its multiple ownership rules and vacated and remanded the revision to the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule on the grounds the fcc failed to comply with procedural notice and comment requirements. 26 table of contents fox television stations is in compliance with the rules governing ownership of multiple stations in the same market and with the national station ownership cap established by congress. fox television stations retains an attributable interest in the post and two television stations in the new york dma. on october 6, 2006, the fcc reaffirmed the company permanent waiver of the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, which allows the common ownership of the post and wnyw(tv), and granted a two-year temporary waiver of the rule to continue to allow the common ownership of the post and wwor-tv (the october 2006 order ). the company has asked the fcc to extend the permanent waiver to wwor-tv. the temporary waiver remains in effect pursuant to fcc precedent pending fcc action on this request. parties opposed to the october 2006 order filed a petition for reconsideration with the fcc, which was denied on may 22, 2009. other opponents of the october 2006 order have asked the fcc to reconsider its may 22, 2009 decision and have filed an opposition to the company request for a permanent waiver. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the fcc action on this request for reconsideration or its effect on the company. fcc regulations implementing the cable television consumer protection and competition act of 1992 require each television broadcaster to elect, at three-year intervals, either to (i) require carriage of its signal by cable systems in the station market ( must carry ) or (ii) negotiate the terms on which that broadcast station would permit transmission of its signal by the cable systems within its market ( retransmission consent ). generally, the company has elected retransmission consent for the stations owned and operated by fox television stations. on november 30, 2007, the fcc resolved issues relating to carriage requirements for digital broadcast television signals on cable systems by concluding that cable operators are required to ensure that all must carry television signals remain viewable in homes with only analog equipment. in addition, the fcc reaffirmed that must carry stations that multicast several streams of digital programming are entitled to the carriage by cable systems of only a single primary programming stream. the digital signals of stations that elect retransmission consent may be carried in any manner consistent with the agreement between the cable system and the broadcaster. the satellite home viewer improvement act of 1999 required satellite carriers, as of january 1, 2002, to carry upon request all television stations located in markets in which the satellite carrier retransmits at least one local station pursuant to the copyright license provided in the statute ( carry one, carry all ). fcc regulations implementing this statutory provision require affected stations to elect either mandatory carriage at the same three year intervals applicable to cable must carry or negotiate carriage terms with the satellite operators. satellite carriers are expected to seamlessly replace stations analog signals with digital signals. in march 2008, the fcc decided that its carry one, carry all policy also applies to local stations hd dtv signals; however, satellite carriers could phase in the carriage of all hd dtv signals in a dma over a four year period beginning in february 2010. several cable and satellite operators filed a petition for rulemaking with the fcc seeking changes in the retransmission consent regulations, including the imposition of mandatory arbitration and required interim carriage in the event the broadcaster and distributor fail to reach a carriage agreement. in march 2011, the fcc responded by initiating a rulemaking to explore changes to its retransmission consent regulations. the fcc tentatively concluded that it does not have the power to order mandatory arbitration or interim carriage and instead sought comment on modifications to its rules affecting retransmission consent negotiations, including providing more guidance under the fcc good faith negotiation standard, improving notice to consumers in advance of possible disruptions of tv station carriage and eliminating program exclusivity rules that restrict cable and satellite operators ability to negotiate for alternative access to network programming. among other things, the fcc sought comment on whether it should be a per se violation of good faith negotiation requirements for a station to agree to give its network the right to approve retransmission consent agreements or to comply with such an approval requirement in the network affiliation agreement. the broadcast industry, including fox entertainment group and fox television stations, has filed comments opposing changes to the current retransmission consent regime. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the rulemaking or its effect on the company. legislation enacted in 1990 limits the amount of commercial matter that may be broadcast during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. in addition, under fcc license renewal processing guidelines, television stations are generally required to broadcast a minimum of three hours per week of programming, which, among other requirements, must serve, as a significant purpose, the educational and 27 table of contents informational needs of children 16 years of age and under. a television station found not to have complied with the programming requirements or commercial limitations could face sanctions, including monetary fines and the possible non-renewal of its license. fcc rules prohibit the broadcast by television and radio stations of indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. beginning in march 2004, the fcc implemented a new policy regarding this prohibition and generally stepped up its enforcement of indecency violations. under the new policy, the single use of certain forbidden expletives, or variations of those expletives, were deemed indecent and profane. the fcc also warned broadcasters that serious multiple violations of the indecency prohibition could lead to license revocation proceedings, and that fines could be imposed for each incident in a single broadcast. under the new fcc policy, both complaints about indecency and fcc enforcement actions have increased, and several complaints alleging the broadcast of alleged indecent or profane material by fox television stations are pending at the fcc. as of june 2006, the law authorizes the fcc to impose fines of up to $325,000 per incident for violation of the prohibition against indecent and profane broadcasts. on march 15, 2006, the fcc determined that the 2002 and 2003 billboard music awards programs, both live broadcasts on fox, violated the prohibitions against indecent and profane broadcasts because they contained isolated uses of the forbidden expletives (the march 15 order ). however, since these broadcasts preceded the fcc march 2004 policy, no forfeiture or other penalty was imposed. nonetheless, in april 2006, fox television stations appealed the march 15 order to the second circuit court of appeals (the second circuit ). on june 4, 2007, the second circuit granted fox appeal, vacating the march 15 order as well as the fcc new policy on fleeting expletives in its entirety on the grounds that both were arbitrary and capricious. the united states obtained review by the u.s. supreme court, which reversed the second circuit decision and remanded the case back to the second circuit for consideration of the constitutional issues that had been raised before but not yet decided by that court. on june 13, 2010, the second circuit vacated the march 15 order and the fcc indecency policy underlying it on the grounds that the policy is unconstitutionally vague and violates the first amendment. the supreme court granted the government request for certiorari and will review the constitutionality of the fcc indecency enforcement regime. a decision is expected by june 2012. it is not possible to predict the outcome of the supreme court review. on february 22, 2008, the fcc issued an order imposing forfeitures of $7,000 each on 13 fox affiliates, including five stations owned and operated by the company, on the grounds that an april 7, 2003 episode of the program married by america violated the prohibition against indecent broadcasts. on april 4, 2008, the united states commenced an action in federal district court in the district of columbia against the five company-owned stations to collect the forfeitures imposed by the fcc. one of the stations, wdaf-tv, subsequently paid the $7,000 forfeiture and was dismissed from the case in connection with the sale of that station by the company to oak hill capital partners in july 2008. the company moved to dismiss the suit on several grounds, including that the fcc forfeiture order is unconstitutional. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of this case or its effect on the company. modifications to the company programming to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on the competitive position of fox television stations and fox. if indecency regulation is extended to cable and satellite programming, and such extension was found to be constitutional, some of the company cable programming services could be subject to additional regulation that might affect subscription and viewership levels. the fcc continues to enforce strictly its regulations concerning political advertising, children television, environmental concerns, equal employment opportunity, technical operating matters and antenna tower maintenance. fcc rules require the closed captioning of almost all broadcast and cable programming. a federal law enacted in late 2010 requires affiliates of the four largest broadcast networks in the 25 largest markets to carry 50 hours of prime time or children programming per calendar quarter with video descriptions, i.e., a verbal description of key visual elements is inserted into natural pauses in the audio and broadcast over a separate 28 table of contents audio channel. cable and satellite operators with 50,000 or more subscribers must do the same on each of the top five non-broadcast networks they carry. compliance is required by january 1, 2012 and will apply to fox affiliates in the top 25 markets. on march 3, 2011, the fcc commenced a rulemaking to implement the statute video description requirements. fox news channel, which is among the top five non-broadcast networks, filed comments seeking the statutory exemption for live or near-live programming. the same statute will require programming that was captioned on television to retain captions when distributed over the internet. although not required by fcc regulation, the company has committed to provide program ratings information for its broadcast network programming for use in conjunction with v chip technology, a technology that blocks the display of television programming based on its rating. fcc regulations governing network affiliation agreements mandate that television broadcast station licensees retain the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance. violation of fcc regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, periodic reporting conditions, short-term license renewals and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of license. internet the children online privacy protection act of 1998 ( coppa ) prohibits websites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. the controlling the assault of non-solicited pornography and marketing act of 2003 ( can-spam ) regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or spam. online services provided by the company may be subject to coppa and can-spam requirements. federal regulators interest in issues of privacy, cybersecurity and data security has been steadily increasing over the past year. in late 2010 the federal trade commission ( ftc ) and the department of commerce ( doc ) each issued a staff report proposing new frameworks for consumer privacy protection; the ftc report called for federal do not track legislation. the ftc has also ratcheted up its enforcement actions against companies that fail to live up to their privacy or data security commitments to consumers. a number of privacy and data security bills have been introduced in both houses of congress that address the collection, maintenance and use of personal information, web browsing and geolocation data, and establish data security and breach notification requirements. several congressional hearings have examined privacy implications for online, offline and mobile data. the doc recently issued a green paper on cybersecurity and the white house has proposed cybersecurity legislation. some state legislatures have already adopted legislation that regulates how businesses operate on the internet, including measures relating to privacy, data security and data breaches. the industry released a set of self-regulatory online behavioral advertising principles in 2009, which are in the process of being implemented by web publishers, online advertisers and online advertising networks. it is unclear whether these industry efforts alone will address the concerns expressed by some federal and state officials about use of anonymous web browsing data to serve targeted advertising. it is not possible to predict whether proposed privacy and data security legislation will be enacted or to determine what effect such legislation might have on the company business. foreign governments are raising similar privacy and data security concerns. in particular, the eu is reviewing its privacy legal framework, including expansion of data breach obligations for all industry sectors, and is actively evaluating the privacy implications of online behavioral data collection and usage. different policy options, including new regulations, are being considered at both the eu and member state levels. european industry is working to implement a self-regulatory regime for online behavioral advertising that is largely consistent with the u.s. self-regulatory framework. most of this activity is in its early stages but tighter regulation of the collection, use and security of online data is likely. it is unclear how any government action would affect the company business. the company monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments. 29 table of contents raw materials as a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. in order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the company paper purchasing is done on a centralized, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. the company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate. intellectual property the company intellectual property assets include: copyrights in motion pictures, television programming, newspapers, books, magazines, websites and technologies; trademarks in names, logos and characters; domain names; patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds. the company derives value from these assets through the theatrical release of films and the production, distribution and/or licensing of its films and television programming to domestic and international television and cable networks, pay television services, pay-per-view, video-on-demand services and dth satellite services, operation of websites, and through the sale of products, such as dvds, blu-rays, books, newspapers and magazines, among others. the company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property in the united states and other key foreign territories. to protect these assets, the company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other laws and contract provisions. however, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the company intellectual property. the company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives, deploying digital rights management technologies, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property. third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the company intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the company operations. moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. therefore, the company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement. item 1a. risk factors prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set forth below before making an investment in the company securities. a decline in advertising expenditures could cause the company revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on or in its television stations, broadcast and cable networks, newspapers, integrated marketing services, digital media properties and direct broadcast satellite services. expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. a decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. demand for the 30 table of contents company products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. for example, ratings points for the company television stations, broadcast and cable networks and circulation levels for the company newspapers are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates, and with respect to the company television stations and broadcast and television networks, when determining the affiliate rates received by the company. in addition, newer technologies, including new video formats, streaming and downloading capabilities via the internet, video-on-demand, personal video recorders, digital distribution models for books and other devices and technologies are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences. some of these devices and technologies allow users to view television or motion pictures from a remote location or on a time-delayed basis and provide users the ability to fast-forward, rewind, pause and skip programming and advertisements. these technological developments are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences and may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the company offerings to viewers, advertisers and/or distributors. a decrease in advertising expenditures or reduced demand for the company offerings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the company businesses. global economic conditions may have a continuing adverse effect on the company business. the united states and global economies have undergone a period of economic uncertainty, which caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, limited access to the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending and lower consumer net worth. the resulting pressure on the labor and retail markets and the downturn in consumer confidence weakened the economic climate in certain markets in which the company does business and has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the company business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. a continued decline in these economic conditions could further impact the company business, reduce the company advertising and other revenues and negatively impact the performance of its motion pictures and home entertainment releases, television operations, newspapers, books and other consumer products. in addition, these conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom the company does business to satisfy their obligations to the company. as a result, the company results of operations may be adversely affected. although the company believes that its operating cash flow and current access to capital and credit markets, including the company existing credit facility, will give it the ability to meet its financial needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair the company liquidity or increase its cost of borrowing. acceptance of the company film and television programming by the public is difficult to predict, which could lead to fluctuations in revenues. feature film and television production and distribution are speculative businesses since the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a feature film or television series depend primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. the commercial success of a feature film or television series also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing films and television series released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of a growing number of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and their effects on consumer spending and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. further, the theatrical success of a feature film and the audience ratings for a television series are generally key factors in generating revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and premium pay television, with respect to feature films, and syndication, with respect to television series. the company could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets (including fcc licenses) and programming. in accordance with applicable generally accepted accounting principles, the company performs an annual impairment assessment of its recorded goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including fcc licenses, during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. the company also continually evaluates whether current factors or 31 table of contents indicators, such as the prevailing conditions in the capital markets, require the performance of an interim impairment assessment of those assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets. any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or the expected popularity of the programming for which the company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of certain reporting units, particularly those in the publishing, television and cable network programming segments. a downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit, indefinite-lived intangible assets, investments or long-lived assets could result in an impairment and a non-cash charge would be required. any such charge could be material to the company reported net earnings. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could have an adverse effect on the company results of operations. the company has significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of the company operations are conducted in foreign currencies. the value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations in a given period or in specific markets. the loss of carriage agreements could cause the company revenue and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with third party owned television stations and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to the company. the loss of a significant number of these affiliation arrangements could reduce the distribution of fox and mynetworktv and adversely affect the company ability to sell national and local advertising time. similarly, the company cable networks maintain affiliation and carriage arrangements that enable them to reach a large percentage of cable and direct broadcast satellite households across the united states. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the company cable networks, which may adversely affect those networks revenues from subscriber fees and their ability to sell national and local advertising time. the inability to renew sports programming rights could cause the company advertising revenue to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the sports rights contracts between the company, on the one hand, and various professional sports leagues and teams, on the other, have varying duration and renewal terms. as these contracts expire, renewals on favorable terms may be sought; however, third parties may outbid the current rights holders for the rights contracts. in addition, professional sports leagues or teams may create their own networks or the renewal costs could substantially exceed the original contract cost. the loss of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by the company and its affiliates, as it relates to fox, and could adversely affect the company advertising and affiliate revenues. upon renewal, the company results could be adversely affected if escalations in sports programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in advertising rates and, in the case of cable networks, subscriber fees. the company relies on network and information systems and other technology that may be subject to disruption or misuse, which could result in improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information as well as increased costs or loss of revenue. network and information systems and other technologies, including those related to our network management, are important to our business activities. network and information systems-related events, such as computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing, could result in a disruption of our services or improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information. improper disclosure of such information could harm our reputation, require us to expend resources to remedy such a security breach or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. 32 table of contents technological developments may increase the threat of content piracy and signal theft and limit the company ability to protect its intellectual property rights. the company seeks to limit the threat of content piracy and direct broadcast satellite programming signal theft; however, policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken by the company may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties. developments in technology, including digital copying, file compressing and the growing penetration of high-bandwidth internet connections, increase the threat of content piracy by making it easier to duplicate and widely distribute pirated material. in addition, developments in software or devices that circumvent encryption technology increase the threat of unauthorized use and distribution of direct broadcast satellite programming signals. the company has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy and signal theft, both individually and, in some instances, together with industry associations. there can be no assurance that the company efforts to enforce its rights and protect its products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy or signal theft. content piracy and signal theft present a threat to the company revenues from products and services, including, but not limited to, films, television shows, books and direct broadcast satellite programming. the company must respond to changes in consumer behavior as a result of new technologies in order to remain competitive. technology, particularly digital technology used in the entertainment industry, continues to evolve rapidly, leading to alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content. these technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume digital content. content owners are increasingly delivering their content directly to consumers over the internet, often without charge, and innovations in distribution platforms have enabled consumers to view such internet-delivered content on televisions and portable devices. there is a risk that the company responses to these changes and strategies to remain competitive, including distribution of its content on a pay basis, may not be adopted by consumers. in addition, enhanced internet capabilities and other new media may reduce television viewership, the demand for dvds and blu-rays, the desire to see motion pictures in theaters and the demand for newspapers, which could negatively affect the company revenues. in publishing, the trending toward digital media may drive down the price consumers are willing to spend on our products disproportionately to the costs associated with generating literary content. the company failure to protect and exploit the value of its content, while responding to and developing new technology and business models to take advantage of advancements in technology and the latest consumer preferences, could have a significant adverse effect on the company businesses and results of operations. labor disputes may have an adverse effect on the company business. in a variety of the company businesses, the company and its partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements, including employees of the company film and television studio operations and newspapers. if the company or its partners are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on the company business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins. changes in u.s. or foreign regulations may have an adverse effect on the company business. the company is subject to a variety of u.s. and foreign regulations in the jurisdictions in which its businesses operate. in general, the television broadcasting and multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the united states are highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc generally regulates, among other things, the ownership of media, broadcast and multichannel video programming and technical operations of broadcast licensees. our 33 table of contents program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as content regulation, user privacy and data protection, and consumer protection, among others. further, the united states congress, the fcc and state legislatures currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters, including technological changes and measures relating to privacy and data security, which could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of the company u.s. media properties. similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which the company, or entities in which the company has an interest, operate could adversely affect its business and results of operations. in addition, changes in tax laws, regulations or the interpretations thereof in the u.s. and other jurisdictions in which the company has operations could affect the company results of operations. we face criminal investigations regarding allegations of phone hacking and inappropriate payments to police and other related matters and related civil lawsuits. u.k. and u.s. regulators and governmental authorities are conducting investigations after allegations of phone hacking and inappropriate payments to police at our former publication, news of the world , and other related matters, including investigations into whether similar conduct may have occurred at the company subsidiaries outside of the u.k. the company is cooperating fully with these investigations. we are not able to predict the ultimate outcome or cost of the investigations. violations of law may result in civil, administrative or criminal fines or penalties. it is also possible that these proceedings could damage our reputation and might impair our ability to conduct our business. any fees, expenses, fines, penalties, judgments or settlements which might be incurred by the company in connection with the various proceedings could affect the company results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has exposure to several types of market risk: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, and stock prices. the company neither holds nor issues financial instruments for trading purposes. the following sections provide quantitative information on the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and stock price risk. the company makes use of sensitivity analyses that are inherently limited in estimating actual losses in fair value that can occur from changes in market conditions. foreign currency exchange rates the company conducts operations in four principal currencies: the u.s. dollar; the british pound sterling; the euro; and the australian dollar. these currencies operate as the functional currency for the company u.s., united kingdom, italian and australian operations, respectively. cash is managed centrally within each of the four regions with net earnings reinvested locally and working capital requirements met from existing liquid funds. to the extent such funds are not sufficient to meet working capital requirements, draw downs in the appropriate local currency are available from intercompany borrowings. since earnings of the company australian, united kingdom and italian operations are expected to be reinvested in those businesses indefinitely, the company does not hedge its investment in the net assets of those foreign operations. at june 30, 2011, the company outstanding financial instruments with foreign currency exchange rate risk exposure had an aggregate fair value of $193 million (including the company non-u.s. dollar-denominated fixed rate debt). the potential increase in the fair values of these instruments resulting from a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately $79 million at june 30, 2011. interest rates the company current financing arrangements and facilities include approximately $15.5 billion of outstanding fixed-rate debt and the credit agreement, which carries variable rates. fixed and variable rate debts are impacted differently by changes in interest rates. a change in the interest rate or yield of fixed rate debt will only impact the fair market value of such debt, while a change in the interest rate of variable debt will impact interest expense, as well as the amount of cash required to service such debt. as of june 30, 2011, substantially all of the company financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk were denominated in u.s. dollars and had an aggregate fair value of approximately $17.2 billion. the potential change in fair market value for these financial instruments from an adverse 10% change in quoted interest rates across all maturities, often referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve, would be approximately $1 billion at june 30, 2011. stock prices the company has common stock investments in several publicly traded companies that are subject to market price volatility. these investments principally represent the company equity affiliates and had an aggregate fair value of approximately $12.5 billion as of june 30, 2011. a hypothetical decrease in the market price of these investments of 10% would result in a fair value of approximately $11.2 billion. such a hypothetical decrease would result in a before tax decrease in comprehensive income of approximately $36 million, as any changes in fair value of the company equity affiliates are not recognized unless deemed other-than-temporary, as these investments are accounted for under the equity method. credit risk cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions of reputable credit and, therefore, bear minimal credit risk. 76 table of contents the company receivables did not represent significant concentrations of credit risk at june 30, 2011 or 2010 due to the wide variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the company products and services are sold. the company monitors its positions with, and the credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. at june 30, 2011, the company did not anticipate nonperformance by any of the counterparties. 77 table of contentsrisk factors 30 risk factors in this annual report. the company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the company with the sec. this section should be read together with the consolidated financial statements of news corporation and related notes set forth elsewhere in this annual report. business overview the company is a diversified global media company, which manages and reports its businesses in the six segments described below. cable network programming the company produces and licenses news, business news, sports, general entertainment and movie programming for distribution primarily through cable television systems and direct broadcast satellite operators in the united states and internationally. 2 table of contents fox news . fox news owns and operates the fox news channel, the top rated 24/7 all news national cable channel currently available to approximately 98 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research, as well as the fox business network which is currently available in over 68 million u.s. households. fox news also produces a weekend political commentary show, fox news sunday , for broadcast on local fox television stations throughout the united states. fox news, through its fox news edge service, licenses news feeds to fox affiliates and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts throughout the united states and abroad. fox news also produces and runs the websites, foxnews.com and foxbusiness.com, and owns and produces the national fox news radio network, which licenses news updates, long form programs and the fox news talk channel to local radio stations and to satellite radio providers. fsn . fox sports net, inc. ( fsn, inc. ) is the largest regional sports network ( rsn ) programmer in the united states, focusing on live professional and major collegiate home team sports events. fsn, inc. sports programming business currently consists primarily of ownership interests in 13 rsns, including numerous sub-regional feeds (the fsn rsns ) and national sports programming, which operates fsn ( fsn ), a national sports programming service. fsn, inc. also is affiliated with, through fsn, an additional four rsns that are not owned by fsn, inc. (the fsn affiliated rsns ). fsn provides the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns with national sports programming, featuring original and licensed sports-related programming, as well as live and replay sporting events. the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns currently have approximately 67 million subscribers and have rights to telecast live games of 51 of 81 u.s. professional sports teams in major league baseball ( mlb ), the national basketball association and the national hockey league; collegiate conferences; and numerous college and high school sports teams. fx . currently reaching close to 100 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research, fx is a general entertainment network that telecasts a growing roster of original series, as well as acquired television series and motion pictures. fx lineup for the 2012-2013 season includes the critically acclaimed sons of anarchy (season five) , justified (season four) and american horror story (season two). also included in the 2012-2013 season line-up are the eighth season of the comedy series it always sunny in philadelphia , the fourth seasons of archer and the league , the third season of louie , the second season of wilfred and the premiere season of anger management . current syndicated series include two and a half men and how i met your mother . during the 2012-2013 season, fx will also showcase the television premieres of theatrical motion pictures, including twilight new moon, twilight eclipse, iron man ii, karate kid, grown ups, true grit, how to train your dragon and x-men: first class . fx also recently acquired the telecast premiere rights to 2012 number one movie the avengers , as well as prometheus, watchmen, men in black 3, the lorax, taken 2, madagascar 3, act of valor and bourne legacy , among others. the company also produces and distributes fx hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. in 2011, fx began airing saturday college football games as part of the fox sports on fx package. fx is also airing the ultimate fighter , the weekly signature reality show of the ultimate fighting championship ( ufc ), as well as an additional four to six live ufc events annually. speed . currently reaching more than 81 million households in the united states according to nielsen media research, speed brings viewers season-long coverage of the national association of stock car auto racing ( nascar ) races, events and original programming (including exclusive coverage of the annual nascar sprint all-star race and nascar hall of fame ceremonies). in addition, speed delivers programming from other top racing series, such as formula one, grand american road racing, the 24 hours of le mans, world of outlaws, ama pro racing, ama supercross, monster jam, world superbike and motogp. in the spring of 2012, speed premiered the new enthusiast series, hard parts: south bronx . speed also is distributed by fox latin america channels to subscribers in mexico, canada and latin america and by premier media group in australia. the company also produces and distributes speed hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. speed broadband network speed2 features live and on-demand streaming of over 200 hours of motorsports events and enthusiast programming online and is expected to reach more than 30 million households in 2012. 3 table of contents fuel tv . fuel tv is a domestic 24-hour programming service dedicated to thrill seeking sports, as well as high energy entertainment programming, and the lifestyle surrounding it. fuel tv covers both competitive and performance action in the arenas of ufc, surfing, bmx and freestyle motocross. programming includes u.s. and international action sports events and competitions, as well as original series and specials about top action sports athletes and their music, art and culture from a global perspective. fox college sports . fox college sports consists of three regionally-aligned networks, fcs pacific, fcs central and fcs atlantic. fox college sports provides live and delayed collegiate events from the nation top collegiate conferences, coaches shows and collegiate highlight and magazine-format programming from the fsn rsns across the country. fox movie channel . beginning in january 2012, fox movie channel split its programming into two day parts. from 3am to 3pm, the network is branded as fmc and airs films from the historic library of twentieth century fox, uncut and commercial free. from 3pm to 3am, the network is branded as fxm and utilizes fx roster of box office blockbuster modern day films with revenue generated from advertising. also featured throughout both day parts are documentaries and original series that explore the moviemaking process from script to screen. fox soccer channel . fox soccer channel is an english-language programming service offering comprehensive coverage of world-class soccer. top properties include the uefa champions league and european league, england barclays premier league, fa cup, the concacaf champions league and the concacaf gold cup, along with daily soccer news programs, magazine shows and in depth coverage on the world most popular sport. the company also produces and distributes fox soccer channel hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. fox soccer plus . launched in fiscal 2010, fox soccer plus is a premium cable network showcasing nearly 700 exclusive live soccer and rugby competitions. soccer events include matches from the uefa champions league, england barclays premier league, and fa cup. rugby coverage includes matches from the heineken cup, aviva premiership and rabodirect pro 12. big ten network . the company owns an approximate 51% interest in the big ten network, a 24-hour national programming service dedicated to the big ten conference and big ten athletics, academics and related programming, and big ten network hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in hd. national geographic u.s. the company holds an approximate 70% interest in ngc network us llc ( ngc network ), which produces and distributes the national geographic channel and national geographic channel hd, nat geo wild and nat geo wild hd in the united states, with nght, llc, a subsidiary of the national geographic society ( nght ), holding the remaining interest. national geographic channel and national geographic channel hd currently reach more than 84 million households in the united states and nat geo wild and nat geo wild hd reach more than 57 million subscribers in the united states according to nielsen media research. the national geographic channels air non-fiction and documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture. the nat geo wild channels air non-fiction and documentary programming featuring natural history. in july 2011, ngc network launched nat geo mundo, a spanish-language national programming service airing non-fiction and documentary programming on topics similar to those featured on the national geographic channels. fox international channels ( fic ). fic operates, develops and distributes primarily factual and general entertainment channels in various countries in europe, latin america, africa and asia, including the fox channel, fox life, fx, speed, utilisima (which is also distributed in the united states), fox crime, next, 4 table of contents fox traveller, the voyage channel, fox sports, star world, star movies (also known as fox movies premium in certain countries) and chinese language television programming targeted at chinese-speaking audiences in asia. these channels are distributed either in hd or in standard definition ( sd ) or in certain cases, in both hd and sd. fic also owns a 52.2% interest in ngc network international llc and ngc network latin america llc (collectively ngc international ), with nght holding a 26.8% interest and a subsidiary of bskyb holding a 21% interest. ngc international produces and distributes the national geographic channel in various international markets. ngc international also produces and distributes the national geographic channel hd, the nat geo adventure channel (in both hd and sd), the nat geo wild channel (in both hd and sd) and the nat geo music channel in international markets. the national geographic channel is currently shown in 37 languages and in approximately 173 countries internationally, including the united states. fic owns a 77.5% equity interest in laptv, a partnership that distributes nine premium pay television channels (moviecity premieres hd, moviecity premieres, moviecity action hd, moviecity action, moviecity family, moviecity hollywood hd, moviecity hollywood, moviecity classics and moviecity mundo and their multiplexes) and four basic television channels (the film zone hd, the film zone, cinecanal and cinecanal hd) in latin america (excluding brazil). such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of twentieth century fox and three other studio partners in the english language with spanish subtitles. fic also owns a majority equity interest in elite sports limited, a company that owns and distributes babytv, a 24-hour channel dedicated to infants and toddlers under three years old to over 100 countries, including the united states. in december 2011, the company acquired the 67% equity interest in fox pan american sports llc ( fpas ) that it did not already own for approximately $400 million. fpas is an international sports programming and production entity, which owns and operates fox sports latin america network, a spanish and portuguese-language sports network distributed to subscribers in certain caribbean and central and south american nations. also as a result of this transaction, the company now owns 100% of fox deportes, a spanish-language sports programming service distributed in the united states. fox deportes (formerly known as fox sports en espa&ntilde;ol), has more than 2,100 hours of live and exclusive programming, including exclusive coverage of premiere soccer matches (such as copa santander libertadores and copa bridgestone sudamericana) and mlb, including all-star, nlcs and world series games. fox deportes reaches more than 20 million cable and satellite households in the united states, of which almost 6 million are u.s. latino. fic owns a 50% interest in mundofox broadcasting, llc, a joint venture with rcn mf holdings, inc., a latin american television network and production company. in august 2012, the joint venture launched mundofox, a new spanish-language broadcast television network targeted at the u.s. hispanic market. mundofox will feature original news and entertainment content as well as access to sporting events and programming. fic also manages channel [v] thailand in which the company owns a 49% interest. channel [v] thailand owns a thai language music channel. fic licenses its channel [v] brand to a third party in australia to operate a music channel. in addition, fic has a joint venture with cj e&amp;m (formerly cj media), a korean media conglomerate for the distribution of the tvn channel, a 24-hour general entertainment channel featuring korean content, such as original dramas, variety shows, reality and lifestyle programs. star india . star india develops, produces and broadcasts 34 channels in eight languages, which are distributed primarily via satellite to local cable, internet protocol television ( iptv ) and direct-to-home ( dth ) operators for distribution throughout asia, the united kingdom, continental europe, north america and parts of africa to their subscribers. star india primary sources of programming for its channels include 5 table of contents original programming produced, commissioned or acquired by star india. star india also owns a hindi film library comprised of approximately 1,286 titles, a south indian languages film library comprised of approximately 2,544 titles, a bengali film library comprised of approximately 41 titles, a marathi film library comprised of approximately 129 titles, a hindi television program library comprised of approximately 727 titles, a south indian languages program library comprised of approximately 3,939 titles, a bengali program library comprised of approximately 128 titles and a marathi program library comprised of approximately 67 titles. star india channels include the flagship hindi general entertainment channels star plus and life ok, the hindi movie channels star gold and movies ok, the english general entertainment channel star world, the english movie channel star movies, the bengali general entertainment channel star jalsha, the marathi general entertainment channel star pravah and the south indian languages general entertainment channels asianet and vijay tv. in april 2012, star india acquired media rights to the bcci domestic and international cricket series in india for the period from 2012 to 2018. in january 2009, the company expanded into south india regional programming by forming asianet communications limited, a joint venture with asianet tv holdings private limited to provide television services for south indian audiences. the joint venture consists of the company approximate 81% interest in the tamil language channel vijay and the company approximate 75% interest in the malayalam language channels asianet and asianet plus, the kannada language channel suvarna and the telugu language channel sitara. the company also owns an approximate 26% stake in balaji telefilms limited ( balaji ), which is one of the largest television content production companies in india, the shares of which are listed on the stock exchange, mumbai and the national stock exchange of india. balaji currently produces serials broadcast on general entertainment channels in india. the company also holds an approximate 30% interest in tata sky limited which owns and operates a dth platform in india. the company has a 50/50 joint venture, star den, with den networks limited to perform channel placement services in india. in may 2011, star den entered into a 50/50 joint venture with zee turner limited and zee entertainment enterprises limited ( zeel ) to distribute and market all channels owned by the company and zeel, their respective affiliated channels and other third party channels in india, nepal and bhutan. the joint venture company, media pro enterprises india private limited, commenced operations july 1, 2011. middle east. the company has an approximate 19% interest in rotana holding fz-llc ( rotana ), which operates a diversified film, television, audio, advertising and entertainment business across the middle east and north africa. the company also has an approximate 33% interest in moby group holdings limited ( mgh ). mgh operates television, radio, production and other media businesses in afghanistan and also broadcasts farsi language general entertainment programming across the middle east under the farsi1 and zemzemeh brands. espn star sports . the company owns a 50% interest in espn star sports, with espn, inc. owning the remainder. espn star sports is the leading sports broadcaster in asia and operates 25 channels in different languages. in june 2012, the company entered into an agreement to acquire the remaining 50% interest in espn star sports it did not already own. the acquisition is subject to regulatory clearances and other customary closing conditions. phoenix . the company owns an approximate 18% interest in phoenix, a company listed on the main board of the stock exchange of hong kong limited. phoenix owns and operates chinese language general entertainment, movie and current affairs channels, all of which are targeted at chinese audiences around the world and are primarily distributed on a free or an encrypted basis via pay television platforms in asia and europe and in the united states. phoenix also operates a new media business which is listed on the new york stock exchange and an outdoor advertising business. 6 table of contents pt visi media asia. the company owns an approximate 6.7% interest in pt visi media asia, a company which listed on the indonesia stock exchange in november 2011. pt visi media asia owns and operates television channels and an online news portal, all of which are targeted at audiences in indonesia. competition general. cable network programming is a highly competitive business. cable networks compete for distribution and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with free-to-air broadcast television, radio, print media, motion picture theaters, dvds, blu-ray high definition format discs ( blu-rays ), internet, wireless and portable viewing devices and other sources of information and entertainment. important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. fox news. fox news channel primary competition comes from the cable networks cnn, hln (cnn headline news), and msnbc. fox business network primary competition comes from the cable networks cnbc and bloomberg television. fox news channel and fox business network also compete for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks and free-to-air broadcast television networks. sports programming operations. a number of basic and pay television programming services, such as espn and nbc sports network, as well as free-to-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that also targets the fsn rsns audience. fsn is the leading programming service distributing a full range of sports programming on both a national and regional level. on a national level, fsn primary competitor is espn and, to a lesser extent, espn2, nbc sports network and cbs sports net. in regional markets, the fsn rsns compete with other regional sports networks, including those operated by team owners, cable television systems, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors. in addition, the fsn rsns and fsn compete, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. the fsn rsns compete for local and regional rights with local broadcast television stations, other local and regional sports networks, including sports networks launched by team owners, and distribution outlets, such as cable television systems. fsn competes for national rights principally with a number of national cable services that specialize in or carry sports programming, including sports networks launched by the leagues and conferences, and television superstations that distribute sports. independent syndicators also compete by acquiring and reselling such rights nationally, regionally and locally. distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, sometimes contract directly with the sports teams in their service area for the right to distribute a number of those teams games on their systems. in certain markets, the owners of distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, also own one or more of the professional teams in the region, increasing their ability to launch competing networks and also limiting the professional sports rights available for acquisition by fsn rsns. fx. fx faces competition from a number of basic cable and pay television programming services, such as usa, tnt, spike tv, home box office, inc. ( hbo ) and showtime networks inc. ( showtime ), as well as free-to-air broadcast networks that provide programming that targets the same viewing audience as fx. fx also faces competition from these programming services in the acquisition of distribution rights to movie and series programming. national geographic u.s. national geographic channel and nat geo wild face competition for viewers and advertising from a number of basic cable and broadcast television channels, such as discovery channel, history channel, animal planet, travel channel, science channel, history international, military channel, biography and tru tv, as well as free-to-air broadcast networks and sports, news and general entertainment networks which have acquired or produced competing programming. international . internationally, the company cable businesses compete with various local and foreign television services providers and distribution networks for audiences, content acquisition and distribution platforms. 7 table of contents star india . in india, the pay television broadcasting industry has several participants, and star india entertainment channels compete with both pay and free-to-air channels since they are delivered by common cable. star india also competes in india to acquire hindi and other indian languages film and programming rights, and internationally for english film and programming rights. filmed entertainment the company is engaged in the production and acquisition of live-action and animated motion pictures for distribution and licensing in all formats in all entertainment media worldwide, and the production and licensing of television programming worldwide. feature film production and distribution one of the world largest producers and distributors of motion pictures, fox filmed entertainment ( ffe ) produces, acquires and distributes motion pictures throughout the world under a variety of arrangements. during fiscal 2012, ffe placed 25 motion pictures in general release in the united states. the motion pictures of ffe are produced and/or distributed by the following units of ffe: twentieth century fox and fox 2000, which produce and acquire motion pictures for mainstream audiences; fox searchlight pictures, which produces and acquires specialized motion pictures; and twentieth century fox animation, which produces feature length animated motion pictures. in addition, fox international productions, inc. co-produces, co-finances and acquires local-language motion pictures for distribution outside the united states. the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by ffe in the united states and international territories in fiscal 2012 included rise of the planet of the apes, alvin and the chipmunks: chipwrecked!, chronicle, titanic 3d, prometheus, the descendants and the best exotic marigold hotel . ffe has already released or currently plans to release approximately 25 motion pictures in the united states in fiscal 2013, including ice age: continental drift, the watch, taken 2, life of pi, parental guidance, a good day to die hard, epic, hitchcock and trance. pursuant to an agreement with monarchy enterprises holdings b.v. ( meh ), the parent company of new regency in which the company has a 20% interest, and certain of meh subsidiaries, ffe distributes certain new regency films and all films co-financed by ffe and new regency in all media worldwide, excluding a number of international territories with respect to television rights. among its fiscal 2013 releases, ffe currently expects to distribute two new regency films. motion picture companies, such as ffe, typically seek to generate revenues from various distribution channels. ffe derives its worldwide motion picture revenues primarily from four basic sources (set forth in general chronology of exploitation): (i) distribution of motion pictures for theatrical exhibition in the united states and canada and markets outside of the united states and canada ( international markets); (ii) distribution of motion pictures in various home media formats, including electronic distribution; (iii) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on premium pay, subscription video-on-demand, pay-per-view and video-on-demand programming services; and (iv) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on free television networks, other broadcast program services, independent television stations and basic cable programming services, including certain services which are affiliates of the company. the company does not always have rights in all media of exhibition to all motion pictures that it releases, and does not necessarily distribute a given motion picture in all of the foregoing media in all markets. the company believes that the pre-release marketing of a feature film is an integral part of its motion picture distribution strategy and generally begins marketing efforts three to six months in advance of a film release date in any given territory. the company markets and distributes its films worldwide principally through its own distribution and marketing companies. through twentieth century fox home entertainment llc, the company distributes motion pictures and other programming produced by units of ffe, its affiliates and other producers in the united states, canada and international markets in all home media formats, including the sale and rental of dvds and blu-rays. in fiscal 8 table of contents 2012, the domestic home entertainment division released or re-released approximately 1,162 produced and acquired titles, including 31 new ffe film releases, approximately 820 catalog titles and approximately 311 television and non-theatrical titles. in international markets, the company distributed, produced and acquired titles both directly and through foreign distribution channels, with approximately 926 releases in fiscal 2012, including approximately 33 new ffe film releases, approximately 684 catalog titles and approximately 209 television and non-theatrical releases. in fiscal 2012, the company continued its worldwide home video distribution arrangement with metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ), releasing approximately 995 mgm home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs domestically and 664 internationally. the company also continued its domestic home video distribution arrangements with lions gate (u.s. only) and anchor bay entertainment, llc ( anchor bay ) (u.s. and canada), releasing approximately 1,520 lions gate home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs and approximately 566 anchor bay home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs. during fiscal 2012, the domestic home entertainment division released 323 blu-ray titles, including 24 new ffe film releases, 246 catalog titles and 53 television and non-theatrical releases. in international markets, the company released 264 blu-ray titles, including 27 new ffe film releases and 237 catalog titles. the company also distributed 161 blu-ray titles from mgm domestically and 102 titles internationally, 253 blu-ray titles from lions gate domestically, and 149 blu-ray titles from anchor bay domestically. units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs in the united states and international markets to various third party and certain affiliated subscription pay television, subscription video-on-demand, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services as well as to free television networks and basic cable programming services for distribution by means of various media, which may include direct broadcast satellite ( dbs ), cable television systems and the internet. the license agreements reflecting the subscription pay television arrangements generally provide for a specified number of exhibitions of the program during a fixed term in exchange for a license fee that is based on a variety of factors, including the box office performance of each program and the number of subscribers to the service or system. among third party license arrangements that units of ffe have in place in the united states for subscription pay television exhibition of motion pictures is an exclusive license agreement with hbo, providing for the licensing of films initially released for theatrical exhibition. units of ffe also license programming to subscription video-on-demand services in the united states. such licenses enable the consumer to view individual programming selected by the viewer for a subscription fee, typically on a monthly basis. the license agreements reflecting the pay-per-view and video-on-demand services generally provide for a license fee based on a percentage of the licensee gross receipts from the exhibition of the program, and in some cases, a guaranteed minimum fee. in addition, these agreements generally provide for a minimum number of scheduled pay-per-view exhibitions per program and for continuous video-on-demand availability of each program to consumers during a fixed period. units of ffe license motion pictures and other programs to third parties for distribution for electronic sell-through which enables consumers to acquire the right to retain such programs on a permanent basis. in international markets, units of ffe license motion pictures and other programming to subscription pay television, subscription video-on-demand, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services operated by leading third parties, as well as to such services operated by various affiliated entities. in addition, units of ffe license motion pictures in international markets for exhibition on free television networks, including basic cable programming services, both to independent third party broadcasters as well as to services operated by affiliated entities of the company. competition . motion picture production and distribution are highly competitive businesses. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. the number of motion pictures released by the company competitors, particularly the other major film studios, in any given period may create an oversupply of product in the market, which may reduce the company shares of gross box office admissions and may make it more difficult for the company motion pictures to succeed. the commercial success of the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by the company is affected substantially by the public unpredictable response to them. the competitive risks affecting the 9 table of contents company home entertainment business include the number of home entertainment titles released by the company competitors that may create an oversupply of product in the market, competition among home media formats, such as dvds and blu-rays, and other methods of distribution, such as electronic sell-through and video-on-demand services. the company faces ongoing risks associated with controlling unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs. for a further discussion of issues relating to unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs, see intellectual property. television programming, production and distribution twentieth century fox television ( tcftv ) . during fiscal 2012, tcftv produced television programs for the fox broadcasting company ( fox ), fx networks, llc ( fx ), abc television network ( abc ), cbs broadcasting, inc. ( cbs ), nbc television network ( nbc ), comedy partners ( comedy central ), showtime and a&amp;e network. tcftv currently produces, or has orders to produce, episodes of the following television series: american dad , ben and kate, bob burgers , bones , the cleveland show , family guy , glee , the goodwin games, new girl, raising hope , the simpsons and touch for fox; sons of anarchy and american horror story for fx; don t trust the b in apartment 23, how to live with your parents for the rest of your life, last man standing and modern family for abc; 1600 penn and the new normal for nbc; how i met your mother for cbs; brickleberry and futurama for comedy central; arrested development for netflix; homeland for showtime and out there for independent film channel. generally, a television network or cable network will license a specified number of episodes for exhibition during the license period. all other distribution rights, including international and off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by tcftv, utilized by other units of the company or sold to third parties. television programs generally are produced under contracts that provide for license fees that may cover only a portion of the anticipated production costs. as these costs have increased in recent years, the resulting deficit between production costs and license fees for domestic first-run programming also has increased. therefore, additional licensing is often critical to the financial success of a series. successful u.s. network television series are typically (i) licensed for first-run exhibition in international markets, (ii) released in dvd and blu-ray box sets, (iii) licensed for subscription video-on-demand, video-on-demand and pay-per-view services, (iv) licensed for off-network exhibition in the united states (including in syndication and to cable programmers), (v) licensed for further television exhibition in international markets and (vi) made available for electronic sell-through and streaming, including individual episodes and full series. typically, a series must be broadcast for at least three to four television seasons for there to be a sufficient number of episodes to offer the series in syndication or to cable and dbs programmers in the united states. the decision of a television network to continue a series through an entire television season or to renew a series for another television season depends largely on the series audience ratings. twentieth television. twentieth television licenses both television programming and feature films for domestic syndication to television stations and basic cable services in the united states. twentieth television distributes a program portfolio that includes the company library of television and film assets, and first-run programming produced by its production companies for sales to local stations, including stations owned and operated by the company, as well as to basic cable networks. first-run programs distributed by twentieth television include: the court shows divorce court and judge alex and, premiering in september 2012, the ricki lake show and dish nation . twentieth television derives revenue from off-network, theatrical and first-run program sales in the form of cash license fees paid by both broadcast and cable licensees, and from the sales of national advertising units retained by twentieth television in its programs. twentieth television licenses such shows as modern family, it always sunny in philadelphia , burn notice, family guy , the simpsons, bones, how i met your mother, the cleveland show, and glee to cable and broadcast networks. twentieth television also manages and distributes the long running series cops and sells national advertising on behalf of other third party syndicators. 10 table of contents fox television studios ( ftvs ) . ftvs is a program supplier to the major u.s. and international broadcast and cable networks. ftvs is currently producing the series burn notice and white collar for usa network, the glades for a&amp;e, the killing for amc, and the great escape for tnt, as well as the television movies home alone: the holiday heist for abc family and prosecuting casey anthony for lifetime. shine limited ( shine ). shine is an international television production and distribution group with 28 production companies across 12 countries creating and exploiting scripted and non-scripted content in the global marketplace. shine companies include award-winning genre specialists such as u.k.-based kudos (drama), dragonfly (factual), princess productions (entertainment and multi-genre) and shine tv (factual and factual entertainment); u.s. producer shine america (formerly reveille); and metronome film &amp; television, the nordic region largest production group. shine international, the international distribution arm, was responsible for distributing a catalogue of more than 3,500 hours of broadcast content in fiscal 2012. shine has also established businesses in germany, france, australia, spain and portugal. shine has recently enhanced its digital and direct to consumer business with the additions of the social gaming producer bossa studios and the online original content producers, channelflip media, as well as expanded into the children genre. internationally renowned shows from the shine group include masterchef , the biggest loser , one born every minute , minute to win it and fantasy drama merlin . competition . similar to motion picture production and distribution, production and distribution of television programming is extremely competitive. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. in addition, television networks have affiliated production companies from which they are increasingly obtaining their programming, which has reduced the demand for programming from other non-affiliated parties. motion picture and television library the company motion picture and television library (the fox library ) consists of varying rights to several thousand previously released motion pictures and many well-known television programs. motion pictures in the fox library include many successful and well-known titles, such as the sound of music , mrs. doubtfire , dr. dolittle , home alone , the star wars series, the x-men series, independence day, the day after tomorrow , the ice age series, sideways , walk the line , the devil wears prada , little miss sunshine , the night at the museum series, the alvin and the chipmunks series, slumdog millionaire and taken, as well as five of the top 20 domestic box office grossing films of all time, which are avatar , titanic (together with paramount pictures corporation), star wars episode iv: a new hope , star wars episode i: the phantom menace and star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith . the fox library contains varying rights to many television series and made-for-television motion pictures. the television programming in the fox library consists of such classic series as 24 , king of the hill , prison break , boston legal, my name is earl, the mary tyler moore show , m*a*s*h , hill street blues , doogie howser, m.d. , l.a. law , the wonder years , the practice , ally mcbeal , angel , dharma &amp; greg , in living color , the x-files , buffy the vampire slayer and nypd blue , as well as prior seasons of such current series as the simpsons , bones , family guy , the cleveland show , glee , modern family , futurama , how i met your mother , sons of anarchy, american dad and arrested development . television the company is engaged in the operation of broadcast television stations and the broadcasting of network programming in the united states. 11 table of contents fox television stations fox television stations, inc. ( fox television stations ) owns and operates 27 full power stations, including stations located in nine of the top ten largest designated market areas ( dmas ). fox television stations owns and operates duopolies in nine dmas, including the three largest dmas, new york, los angeles and chicago. of the 27 full power stations, 17 stations are affiliates of fox ( fox affiliates ). for a description of the programming offered to fox affiliates, see fox broadcasting company. in addition, fox television stations owns and operates 10 stations affiliated with master distribution service, inc. ( mynetworktv ). the following table lists certain information about each of the television stations owned and operated by fox television stations. unless otherwise noted, all stations are fox affiliates. fox television stations dma/rank station digital channel type percentage of u.s. television households reached ( 1 ) new york, ny 1 wnyw 44 (5 ) uhf 6.4 % wwor ( 2 ) 38 (9 ) uhf los angeles, ca 2 kttv 11 (11 ) vhf 4.9 % kcop ( 2 ) 13 (13 ) vhf chicago, il 3 wfld 31 (32 ) uhf 3.0 % wpwr ( 2 ) 51 (50 ) uhf philadelphia, pa 4 wtxf 42 (29 ) uhf 2.6 % dallas, tx 5 kdfw 35 (4 ) uhf 2.2 % kdfi ( 2 ) 36 (27 ) uhf boston, ma 7 wfxt 31 (25 ) uhf 2.1 % washington, dc 8 wttg 36 (5 ) uhf 2.1 % wdca ( 2 ) 35 (20 ) uhf atlanta, ga 9 waga 27 (5 ) uhf 2.0 % houston, tx 10 kriv 26 (26 ) uhf 1.9 % ktxh ( 2 ) 19 (20 ) uhf detroit, mi 11 wjbk 7 (2 ) vhf 1.6 % phoenix, az 13 ksaz 10 (10 ) vhf 1.6 % kutp ( 2 ) 26 (45 ) uhf tampa, fl 14 wtvt 12 (13 ) vhf 1.6 % minneapolis, mn ( 3 ) 15 kmsp 9 (9 ) vhf 1.5 % wftc ( 2 ) 29 (29 ) uhf orlando, fl 19 wofl 22 (35 ) uhf 1.3 % wrbw ( 2 ) 41 (65 ) uhf baltimore, md 27 wutb ( 2 ) 41 (24 ) uhf 1.0 % austin, tx 47 ktbc 7 (7 ) vhf 0.6 % memphis, tn 49 whbq 13 (13 ) vhf 0.6 % gainesville, fl 163 wogx 31 (51 ) uhf 0.1 % total 37.1 % source: nielsen media research, january 2012 ( 1 ) vhf television stations transmit on channels 2 through 13 and uhf television stations on channels 14 through 51. the federal communications commission (the fcc ) applies a discount (the uhf discount ) which attributes only 50% of the television households in a local television market to the 12 table of contents audience reach of a uhf television station for purposes of calculating whether that station owner complies with the national station ownership cap imposed by fcc regulations and by statute; in making this calculation, only the station actual (digital) broadcast channel is considered. in addition, the coverage of two commonly owned stations in the same market is counted only once. the percentages listed are rounded and do not take into account the uhf discount. for more information regarding the fcc national station ownership cap, see government regulation television in this annual report. ( 2 ) mynetworktv affiliate. ( 3 ) the company also owns and operates full power station kftc, channel 26, bemidji, mn as a satellite station of wftc, channel 29, minneapolis, mn. station kftc is in addition to the 27 full power stations described in this section. fox broadcasting company ( fox ) fox has 205 fox affiliates, including the 17 stations owned and operated by the company, which reach approximately 99% of all u.s. television households. in general, each week fox regularly delivers to its affiliates 15 hours of prime-time programming and 90 minutes of late-night programming on saturday. fox prime-time programming features such series as new girl , raising hope , the simpsons , bones , fringe and glee; unscripted series such as american idol , the x factor and so you think you can dance ; and various specials. in addition, a significant component of fox programming consists of sports programming, with fox providing to its affiliates live coverage (including post-season) of the national football conference of the national football league (the nfl ) and mlb, as well as live coverage of the sprint cup series of the nascar. for the upcoming 2013 season, fox has also secured rights to college football. fox also airs a two-hour block of direct response programming on saturday mornings provided by worldlink ventures ( worldlink ), a media sales firm. fox agreement with worldlink extends through the 2013-2014 broadcast season. fox prime-time line-up is intended to appeal primarily to target audiences of 18 to 49-year old adults, the demographic group that advertisers seek to reach most often. during the 2011-2012 traditional september to may broadcast season, fox ranked first in prime-time programming based on viewership of adults ages 18 to 49 (based on live+7 ratings, fox had a 3.2 rating and a 9 share, cbs had a 3.0 rating and an 8 share, abc had a 2.5 rating and a 7 share and nbc had a 2.5 rating and a 7 share). the median age of the fox viewer is 41 years, as compared to 49 years for nbc, 50 years for abc and 55 years for cbs. fox obtains programming from major television studios and independent television production companies pursuant to license agreements. the terms of those agreements generally provide fox with the right to broadcast a television series for a minimum of four seasons. national sports programming, such as the nfl, mlb, college football and nascar programming, is obtained under license agreements with professional or collegiate sports leagues or organizations. fox current licenses with the nfl, mlb, college football and nascar extend until the 2022 nfl season, the 2013 mlb season, the 2023 college football season and the 2014 nascar season. additionally, in fiscal 2012, fox acquired the rights to air fifa men and women world cup events starting in 2015, with certain matches during the term scheduled to air on fox soccer channel, as well as on other fox cable networks. fox provides programming to the fox affiliates in accordance with affiliation agreements of varying durations, which grant to each affiliate the right to broadcast network television programming on the affiliated station. such agreements typically run three or more years and have staggered expiration dates. these affiliation agreements generally require fox affiliates to carry fox programming in all time periods in which fox programming is offered to those affiliates, subject to certain exceptions stated in the affiliation agreements. 13 table of contents mynetworktv at the beginning of the 2009-2010 television season, mynetworktv transitioned to a new programming distribution service, master distribution service, inc., distributing two hours per night of original and off- network programming from twentieth television and other third party syndicators to its affiliates. as of june 30, 2012, mynetworktv had 181 affiliates, including 10 stations owned and operated by the company, reaching approximately 97% of u.s. households. competition. the network television broadcasting business is highly competitive. fox and mynetworktv compete with other broadcast networks, such as abc, nbc, cbs and the cw television network, independent television stations, cable and dbs program services, as well as other media, including dvds, blu-rays, digital video recorders ( dvr ), video games, print and the internet for audiences, programming and, in the case of fox, advertising revenues. in addition, fox and mynetworktv compete with other broadcast networks and other programming distribution services to secure affiliations with independently owned television stations in markets across the united states. abc, nbc and cbs each broadcasts a significantly greater number of hours of programming than fox and, accordingly, may be able to designate or change time periods in which programming is to be broadcast with greater flexibility than fox. in addition, future technological developments may affect competition within the television marketplace. each of the stations owned and operated by fox television stations also competes for advertising revenues with other television stations and radio and cable systems in its respective market area and with other advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail and internet websites. all of the stations owned and operated by fox television stations are located in highly competitive markets. additional elements that are material to the competitive position of each of the television stations include management experience, authorized power and assigned frequency of that station. competition for sales of broadcast advertising time is based primarily on the anticipated and actually delivered size and demographic characteristics of audiences as determined by various rating services, price, the time of day when the advertising is to be broadcast, competition from the other broadcast networks, cable television systems, dbs services and other media and general economic conditions. competition for audiences is based primarily on the selection of programming, the acceptance of which is dependent on the reaction of the viewing public, which is often difficult to predict. direct broadcast satellite television the company engages in the direct broadcast satellite business through its subsidiary, sky italia. the company also owns significant equity interests in bskyb and sky deutschland ag ( sky deutschland ), which are engaged in the dbs business (for a description of the businesses of these equity interests, please see discussion under heading equity interests ). sky italia sky italia currently distributes more than 180 channels of basic, premium and pay-per-view programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in italy. this programming includes exclusive rights to popular sporting events, newly-released movies and sky italia original programming, such as sky tg 24 , italy first 24-hour news channel. as of june 30, 2012, sky italia had approximately 4.90 million subscribers. competition . sky italia competition includes companies that offer video, audio, interactive programming, telephony, data and other information and entertainment services, including broadband internet providers, digital terrestrial transmission ( dtt ) services, wireless companies and companies that are developing new media technologies. under a commitment made to the european commission (the ec ), through december 31, 2011, sky italia was required to wholesale its premium programming, to limit the length and exclusivity of certain of its premium programming contracts and to provide third parties with access to the sky italia platform. in addition, sky italia had been prohibited from owning a dtt frequency or providing a pay television dtt offer. 14 table of contents publishing the company is engaged in the publishing business, primarily through its subsidiaries news international, news limited, dow jones, the new york post, the daily, harpercollins publishers and news america marketing group. the company evaluates these businesses collectively as a result of evolving trends in the overall publishing industry including digital distribution. news international news international publishes the times , the sunday times , the sun and, until july 2011, the news of the world in the united kingdom and ireland. sales of these four newspapers account for approximately one-third of all national newspapers sold in the united kingdom. both the times , a daily published monday through saturday, and the sunday times, are leading quality newspapers. the sun , published each morning monday through saturday, and on sunday as of february 25, 2012, is a popular, mass market newspaper, as was the news of the world , which until july 10, 2011 was published on sunday. the average paid circulation for each of these national newspapers for the six months ended june 30, 2012 was approximately: the times 397,395; the sunday times 935,235; the sun 2,622,123; and the sun on sunday 2,474,001. news international recognizes the challenges to its traditional business model from new technology and considers itself a multi-platform news provider, continually investing in its digital products. as readers use these new channels to access content, news international recognizes the importance of maximizing revenues from these new channels, both in terms of paid-for content and new advertising models. on july 7, 2011, news international announced that july 10, 2011 would be the last issue of the news of the world after allegations of phone hacking and inappropriate payments to public officials. the printing of news international national newspapers (except saturday and sunday supplements) takes place principally in its printing facilities located in england, scotland and ireland. news international also publishes the times literary supplement , a weekly literary review. news limited news limited is the largest newspaper publisher in australia by readership and circulation, owning approximately 142 daily, sunday, weekly, bi-weekly and tri-weekly newspapers, of which three are free commuter titles and 98 are suburban publications (including 16 of which news limited has a 50% interest). news limited publishes the only nationally distributed general interest newspaper in australia, the leading metropolitan newspapers in each of the major australian cities of sydney, melbourne, brisbane, adelaide, perth, hobart and darwin and the leading suburban newspapers in the suburbs of sydney, melbourne, adelaide, brisbane and perth. news limited daily and sunday newspapers account for more than 68% of the total circulation of all daily and sunday newspapers (excluding suburban and regional newspapers) published in australia. news limited principal daily newspapers in australia are: the australian; the daily telegraph , published in sydney; the herald sun , published in melbourne; the courier-mail, published in brisbane; the advertiser , published in adelaide; the mercury , published in hobart; and the northern territory news , published in darwin. the australian , which is australia only general interest national daily newspaper, is printed in seven cities and distributed nationwide. news limited other principal daily newspapers in australia are mass circulation, regional newspapers with broad-based readerships and are published and distributed regionally. the average monday to friday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers for the nine months ended march 31, 2012 was approximately as follows: the australian 131,000; the daily telegraph 345,000; the herald sun 475,000; the courier-mail 192,000; the advertiser 176,000; the mercury 42,000; and the northern territory news 19,000. the average saturday paid circulation of each of these daily newspapers 15 table of contents for the nine months ended march 31, 2012 was approximately as follows: the weekend australian 293,000; the daily telegraph 324,000; the herald sun 472,000; the courier-mail 261,000; the advertiser 235,000; the mercury 58,000; and the northern territory news 29,000. news limited principal sunday newspapers in australia are: the sunday telegraph , published in sydney; the sunday herald sun , published in melbourne; the sunday mail, published in brisbane; the sunday mail , published in adelaide; the sunday times , published in perth; the sunday tasmanian , published in hobart; and the sunday territorian, published in darwin. all these newspapers are mass circulation, metropolitan sunday newspapers with broad-based readerships reflecting the diversity of the populations of the cities in which they are published. the average paid circulation of each of these sunday newspapers for the nine months ended march 31, 2012 was approximately as follows: the sunday telegraph 612,000; the sunday herald sun 550,000; the sunday mail (brisbane ) 469,000; the sunday mail (adelaide) 279,000; the sunday times 282,000; the sunday tasmanian 55,000; and the sunday territorian 21,000. the other newspapers that news limited owns and publishes in australia are distributed to a wide range of readers in urban, suburban and rural areas and are principally weekly publications. the majority of such newspapers are free-distribution suburban publications. in the sydney suburban markets, news limited owns 21 weekly newspapers; in melbourne, 33 weekly newspapers; in brisbane, 17 weekly newspapers; in adelaide, 11 weekly newspapers; and in perth, news limited 50% owned suburban group publishes 16 weekly newspapers. the aggregate average weekly circulations of these suburban newspapers for the six months ended march 31, 2012 was approximately 4,956,000 homes. in addition to these newspapers, news limited also publishes two other monthly publications with an average circulation for the six months ended march 31, 2012 of approximately 111,000 homes. news limited suburban newspapers are leading publications in terms of advertising and circulation in each of their respective markets. news limited other newspapers in australia are regional newspapers, circulating throughout broader, less densely populated areas. in line with shifting consumer preferences, news limited continues to invest in a variety of digital products and content across multiple platforms. in addition, news limited has launched paid-for digital platforms across a number of its major mastheads including the introduction of paywalls around the australian and the herald sun websites. except for 30 of its suburban newspapers, news limited australian newspapers are produced and printed in facilities owned by the company. dow jones dow jones is a global provider of news and business information, with newspaper, newswire, website, mobile, newsletter, magazine, database, conference, radio and video businesses. dow jones offers products targeting individual consumer and business and institutional customers, including the wall street journal , dow jones newswires, factiva, barron , marketwatch, smartmoney , financial news and other products. products targeting business and institutional customers, including dow jones newswires and factiva, combine news and information with technology and tools designed to inform decisions and to aid awareness, research and understanding. the dow jones local media business publishes community newspapers, websites and other products in seven u.s. states. the wall street journal . the wall street journal is available in print, online at wsj.com, and across multiple mobile and tablet devices. the wall street journal is the leading circulation daily newspaper in the united states, with total average print and digital circulation in fiscal 2012 of more than 2.0 million based on audit bureau of circulations data. wsj.com, which offers both free and premium content, averaged more than 34 million visitors per month during fiscal 2012 according to adobe omniture. the wall street journal is printed at plants around the united states, including nine owned by the company. the wall street journal also publishes print editions in europe and asia and wsj.com includes local language editions in chinese, japanese, german, spanish and portuguese. 16 table of contents barron . barron is available in print, online at barrons.com, and on mobile devices. barron caters to financial professionals, individual investors and others interested in financial markets. its print edition is published weekly. in fiscal 2012, barron had an average paid weekly circulation of more than 300,000 based on audit bureau of circulations data and barrons.com had more than 160,000 paid subscribers. barron is printed at plants around the united states, including at nine owned by the company. smartmoney . smartmoney , the personal finance magazine from the wall street journal, is available online at smartmoney.com and on mobile devices. in june 2012, the company announced it would cease production of smartmoney print edition after the september 2012 issue. in addition to smartmoney.com, all content and tools from smartmoney.com will also be available on an expanded co-branded personal finance section on marketwatch.com. in fiscal 2012, smartmoney had average monthly paid circulation of more than 800,000, based on audit bureau of circulations data. the wall street journal digital network ( wsjdn ). wsjdn comprises business and financial news websites and mobile applications. in addition to wsj.com, barrons.com and smartmoney.com, discussed above, wsjdn includes marketwatch, allthingsd, wsj live and related services. wsjdn had more than 1.3 million paid subscribers as of june 30, 2012 and, during fiscal 2012, averaged more than 54 million visitors per month with more than 540 million page views according to adobe omniture. marketwatch comprises an investing and financial news site targeting active investors, and averaged 14 million visitors per month during fiscal 2012 according to adobe omniture. allthingsd is a personal technology site that features breaking technology news, in-depth coverage of silicon valley and the media industry, and product reviews and analysis. wsj live is a video website enabling all users from across wsjdn to watch and share videos from a central platform. factiva. factiva provides news and business information with search and discovery technology and tools to assist customers with research, awareness and decision-making. factiva had nearly 1.9 million contracted users worldwide as of june 30, 2012. dow jones newswires. dow jones newswires is a premier provider of real-time business news and information to financial professionals and online investors around the world via terminals, portals and intranet sites with hundreds of thousands of financial professionals and millions of online investors relying on this information each trading day. it publishes over 20,000 news items in multiple languages each day, including breaking news, analysis, commentary and statistical data. dow jones local media. the dow jones local media business publishes community-focused print publications including eight general interest daily newspapers and related local websites in california, maine, massachusetts, new hampshire, new york, oregon and pennsylvania. in fiscal 2012, average print and digital circulation for these dailies was more than 188,000 with sunday print and digital circulation of over 238,000. the dow jones local media business also publishes 13 weekly newspapers, performs commercial printing at its five printing locations and offers other products and services. new york post the new york post (the post ) is a mass circulation, metropolitan morning newspaper published seven days a week and primarily distributed in the new york metropolitan area, the northeast, florida and california. for the six month period ended march 31, 2012, average weekday circulation, including digital editions, was approximately 555,000. the company prints the post in a printing facility in the bronx, new york and uses third party printers in its other markets in the united states. as readers use new distribution channels to access content, the post continues to invest in its digital platforms and to seek to maximize revenues through paid-for content and new advertising models. the company community newspaper group also owns several local newspapers and other publications distributed in the new york metropolitan area. 17 table of contents the daily the daily is a first-of-its-kind daily national news publication built exclusively as an application for tablet and mobile computing devices. the daily is a subscription-based news product, published daily. the daily launched on the ipad in february 2011 and as of june 30, 2012 has been downloaded more than 2 million times from the itunes app store. the daily is available for ipad and iphone and select android tablet devices. harpercollins publishers harpercollins publishers ( harpercollins ) is engaged in english language book publishing on a worldwide basis and is one of the world largest english language book publishers. harpercollins principal businesses are harpercollins publishers llc ( harpercollins u.s. ), headquartered in new york, harpercollins publishers limited, headquartered in london, and the zondervan corporation llc, headquartered in grand rapids, michigan. harpercollins primarily publishes fiction and non-fiction, including religious books, for the general consumer. in the united kingdom, harpercollins publishes some titles for the educational market as well. during fiscal 2012, harpercollins u.s. had 144 titles on the new york times bestseller list, with 17 titles hitting number one, including american sniper by chris kyle with scott mcewen and jim defelice , the pioneer woman cooks: food from my frontier by ree drummond , act like a lady, think like a man by steve harvey , the capture of the earl of glencrae by stephanie laurens , loving by karen kingsbury , divergent by veronica roth , if you give a dog a donut by laura numeroff , pete the cat and his four groovy buttons by eric litwin , insurgent by veronica roth , pete the cat: rocking in my school shoes by eric litwin , the night before christmas by clement c. moore , the power of six by pittacus lore , every thing on it by shel silverstein , pinkalicious and the pink pumpkin by victoria kann , fancy nancy and the mermaid ballet by jane o connor , one direction: dare to dream by one direction , and the fame game by lauren conrad. in october 2011, harpercollins entered into an agreement to acquire thomas nelson, inc., a leading trade publisher providing multiple forms of inspirational christian content. the company completed the acquisition in july 2012. news america marketing group news america marketing group ( namg ) publishes free-standing insert publications and provides in-store marketing products and services. namg is one of the two largest publishers of free-standing inserts in the united states. free-standing inserts are multiple-page marketing booklets containing coupons, rebates and other consumer offers, which are distributed to consumers through insertion primarily into local sunday newspapers. advertisers, primarily packaged goods companies, pay namg to produce free-standing inserts, and namg contracts with and pays, among others, newspapers to include the free-standing inserts primarily into the newspapers sunday editions. namg produces approximately 74 million free-standing inserts more than 40 times a year, which are inserted in approximately 1,700 newspapers and other publications throughout the united states. namg, through an affiliate, also produces ten million free-standing inserts approximately 15 times annually, which are inserted into over 300 canadian newspapers and other publications in canada. namg is a leading provider of in-store marketing products and services, primarily to consumer packaged goods manufacturers, with products in more than 55,000 supermarkets, drug stores, dollar stores, office supply stores and mass merchandisers worldwide. smartsource &reg; is the brand name that is linked with namg assortment of marketing products, including, among others, free-standing inserts, namg instant coupon machines and various shelf advertising products. the smartsource &reg; brand currently reaches approximately 158 million consumers weekly. 18 table of contents the smartsource digital manages namg portfolio of database and electronic marketing solutions. the database marketing business, branded smartsource direct, provides direct mail solutions via its national network of retailer frequent shopper card databases. smartsource direct uses frequent shopper card databases to access the purchase behavior of more than 100 million cardholders. the smartsource savings network, which includes smartsource.com and smartsource xpress, encompasses all of namg electronic couponing and sampling solutions accessed through the web, mobile and tablet-based programming and reaches an audience of more than 85 million consumers. competition the newspapers, magazines and digital publications of the company compete for readership and advertising with a variety of print and digital media. for the company consumer products, the competition includes local and national newspapers, web and application-based media, social media sources and other traditional media such as television, magazines and radio. competition for print and digital subscriptions is based on the news and editorial content, subscription pricing, cover price and, from time to time, various promotions. the success of the newspapers and digital media published by the company in competing for advertising depends upon advertisers judgments as to the most effective media for their advertising budgets. the company competes for print and digital advertising based upon circulation volume, readership levels, audience demographics, advertising rates and advertising effectiveness results. such judgments are based on factors such as cost, availability of alternative media, circulation and quality of readership demographics. in recent years, the newspaper and publishing industry has experienced difficulty increasing or maintaining circulation volume and revenues. this is due to, among other factors, increased competition from new media formats and sources, and shifting preferences among some consumers to receive all or a portion of their news from sources other than a newspaper, including digital sources available free of charge to consumers. these new channels for distributing news and other content to consumers have impacted, and could continue to impact, performance, positively and negatively. news consumption via smart phones and tablet computers, including the growth of applications, has introduced new or different pricing schemes and may affect the relationship between publishers and customers. the company believes that competition from new media formats and shifting consumer preferences will continue to pose opportunities and challenges within the newspaper and publishing industry. dow jones print and digital publications compete with other media that offer coverage of business news, including the print and digital publications of the financial times, the new york times, usa today, thestreet.com, bloomberg, forbes, yahoo!finance, thomson reuters, cnn money, msn money, cnbc and google. dow jones newswires competes with other global financial newswires, including thomson reuters and bloomberg l.p., as well as many internet-based providers of financial news and information. factiva competes with various business information service providers, including lexisnexis, thomson reuters, hoover and onesource. factiva also competes with various internet-based information search services such as those offered by google, microsoft and yahoo!. the book publishing business operates in a highly competitive market that is quickly changing and continues to see technological innovations, including electronic book devices sold by amazon, apple and barnes &amp; noble. harpercollins competes with other large publishers, such as random house, penguin group, simon &amp; schuster and hachette livre, as well as with numerous smaller publishers, for the rights to works by well-known authors and public personalities. in addition, harpercollins competes for readership with other media formats and sources. namg competes against other providers of advertising and marketing products and services, including those that provide promotional or advertising inserts and direct mailers of promotional or advertising materials, 19 table of contents as well as those that provide trade and in-store advertisements and promotions. competition is based on, among other things, rates, availability of traditional and digital markets, quality of products and services provided and their effectiveness, and rate of coupon redemption. other digital media businesses the company digital media businesses include ign entertainment, inc. ( ign ), and other internet properties. these businesses develop and promote content and experiences for internet audiences and generate revenue through internet advertising, sponsorships, subscriptions and e-commerce. ign network of video game, lifestyle and entertainment-related internet properties represent many of the top web properties in their respective categories across the internet. ign entertainment is one of the top gaming information networks on the internet with over 20.1 million unique users and 399 million page views in the united states in june 2012 according to comscore media metrix. ign ipl subsidiary, formed in september 2011, focuses on competitive gaming in both online and offline events. ign has expanded its reach domestically through a significant presence on youtube and other social media, and internationally, through partnerships with local operators in asia pacific, the middle east, germany, sweden and other countries in europe. ign also owns and operates one of the leading men lifestyle websites, askmen.com. making fun, inc. ( making fun ) is a social games developer and publisher acquired in december 2010. making fun makes games for various platforms, including facebook, android, and ios, and has launched several games with additional ones in development. competition . these digital media businesses compete for advertisers, users and traffic with other online media and offline entertainment and advertising options. these businesses develop new tools and features to remain competitive. these new tools and features are key competitive factors in keeping users engaged with these digital media businesses. amplify in july 2012, the company launched amplify, the brand for its education division. amplify is dedicated to improving k-12 education by creating digital products and services that empower teachers, students and parents in new ways. amplify is focused on transforming teaching and learning by creating and scaling digital innovations in three areas: analytics and assessment, content and curriculum and distribution and delivery. amplify focuses on educational analytics and formative assessment through wireless generation, inc. ( wireless generation ), an amplify company that serves more than 200,000 teachers and three million students in all 50 states. its products and services help teachers and administrators assess learning progress throughout the year, differentiate instruction and adapt curricula to meet individual students needs. other operations the company has an interest in fox tv in turkey, which is a free-to-air, general entertainment television station. news digital media is the company australian online division. in addition to maintaining the company australian websites, news digital media is responsible for online advertising and transactions in australia. news digital media sites include news.com.au, moshtix.com.au, getprice.com.au and truelocal.com.au. news digital media also has a 50% stake in careerone.com.au and carsguide.com.au. 20 table of contents equity interests bskyb the company holds an approximate 39% interest in bskyb. bskyb ordinary shares are listed on the london stock exchange under the symbol bsy . bskyb operates the leading pay television broadcast service in the united kingdom and ireland, as well as broadband and telephony services. bskyb acquires and commissions programming to broadcast on its own channels and supplies certain of those channels to cable operators for retransmission by the cable operators to their subscribers in the united kingdom and ireland. bskyb also retails channels (both its own and those of third parties) to dth subscribers and to certain of its own channels to a limited number of dsl subscribers. in june 2010, the company announced that it had proposed to the board of directors of bskyb to make a cash offer of 700 pence per share for the bskyb shares that the company does not already own. following the allegations regarding the news of the world, on july 13, 2011, the company announced that it no longer intended to make an offer for the bskyb shares that the company does not already own. as a result of the july 2011 announcement, the company paid bskyb a breakup fee of approximately $63 million in accordance with a cooperation agreement between the parties. nds nds group limited ( nds ) creates technologies and applications that enable pay television operators to deliver digital content to televisions, set-top boxes, dvrs, personal computers, portable media players, removable media and other mobile devices securely. in march 2012, the company and funds advised by permira advisers llp signed an agreement to sell nds to cisco systems inc. for approximately $5 billion, including the assumption of debt. the company owned approximately 49% of nds. the transaction was completed on july 30, 2012. fox sports australia the company holds a 50% interest in premier media group, a producer of sports channels, more commonly referred to as fox sports australia. foxtel the company, telstra corporation limited, an australian telecommunications company, and consolidated media holdings ltd. ( cmh ), an australian media investment company, own and operate foxtel, a cable and satellite television service in australia with 25%, 50% and 25% interests, respectively. at june 30, 2012, foxtel had approximately 2.2 million residential subscribers (including subscribers to optus, an australian telecommunications company, and subscribers acquired as a result of foxtel acquisition of austar united communications ltd in may 2012). in june 2012, the company subsidiary news limited made a conditional non-binding offer to acquire cmh for approximately $2 billion. if the proposal is implemented, the company would double its stake in foxtel to 50% and would own 100% of fox sports australia. other investments skynz. the company owns an approximate 44% interest in sky network television limited, a land-linked uhf network and digital dbs service in new zealand. hulu . the company has an approximate 32% equity interest in hulu, llc ( hulu ) which operates an online video service that offers video content from fox, nbc universal, the walt disney company and over 300 other third party content licensors. hulu premium programming is available free of charge to viewers at hulu.com and over 30 destination sites online, including aol, imdb, msn, myspace and yahoo!. additional premium programming is available on a monthly subscription basis at hulu.com and through software applications on internet-connected devices, including smart phones, tablets, gaming consoles and set-top boxes. 21 table of contents sky deutschland . the company owns a 49.9% equity interest in sky deutschland, the leading pay television operator in germany and austria. the core business of sky deutschland is subscription pay-tv and it offers a wide range of programming in germany and austria and can be received via teleclub in switzerland. sky deutschland program offering includes current feature films, new series, children channels, documentaries and live sports, such as the german bundesliga and uefa champions league. sky deutschland has market leading hd offering with over 50 hd channels, and an additional service called sky go which is available on the web, iphone and ipad. in february 2012, the company agreed to backstop 300 million (approximately $395 million) of financing measures that are being initiated by sky deutschland. the first step of the financing was completed in february 2012, in which sky deutschland raised approximately 155 million, and the company acquired 35.3 million additional shares of sky deutschland maintaining its ownership at 49.9%. the aggregate cost of the shares acquired by the company was approximately 80 million (approximately $100 million) and the shares were newly registered shares issued pursuant to the capital increase. the second capital measure of 145 million (approximately $195 million) is expected to be raised by sky deutschland by the end of september 2012 and is planned through any or a combination of the following measures: a rights offering, a private placement, a loan provided by the company and/or a convertible bond underlying sky deutschland shares. in the event that a convertible bond is issued, the remaining 145 million funding will be increased by the amount of interest payable on the bond from the date of issue until december 31, 2013. the company backstop commitment is subject to certain customary conditions such as the absence of a material adverse change in sky deutschland business. as part of financing measures in fiscal 2011, the company currently provides a loan to sky deutschland for approximately 58 million (approximately $80 million) and has further agreed to loan sky deutschland approximately $70 million to support the launch of a sports news channel which it expects to fund within one year. as part of the fiscal 2011 capital raising, the company purchased a convertible bond for approximately $225 million in january 2011. the company has the right to convert the bond into 53.9 million underlying sky deutschland shares, subject to certain black-out periods. if not converted, the company will have the option to redeem the bond for cash upon its maturity in january 2015. cmc-news asia. the company holds an approximate 47% interest in cmc-news asia, a joint venture with china media capital, a media investment fund in china. cmc-news asia develops and broadcasts the chinese language xing kong and channel [v] china channels primarily in china on a free-to-air basis to local cable operators in southern china and three-star and above hotels and other approved organizations and institutions, and sells television, new media, home video and other rights to its extensive contemporary chinese film library comprised of over 750 titles. bona film group. in may 2012, the company acquired a 17% interest in bona film group, a film distributor in china listed on nasdaq, for approximately $70 million in cash. government regulation general various aspects of the company activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. the company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations described herein. the introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the company products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the interests of the company. 22 table of contents cable network programming and direct broadcast satellite television united states. fcc regulations adopted pursuant to the cable television consumer protection and competition act of 1992 (the program access rules ) prevent a cable operator that has an attributable interest (including voting or non-voting stock ownership of 5% or more or limited partnership equity interests of 5% or more) in a programming vendor from exercising undue or improper influence over the vendor in its dealings with competitors to cable. the program access rules also prohibit a cable programmer in which a cable operator has an attributable interest from entering into exclusive contracts with any cable operator or from discriminating among competing multichannel video programming distributors in the price, terms and conditions of sale or delivery of programming. the cable networks operated by the company are not currently subject to the program access rules. asia. the company broadcasts television programming over a footprint covering approximately 53 asian countries. most countries in which the company operates have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. government regulation of direct reception and redistribution via cable or other means of satellite television signals, where it is addressed at all, is treated differently in each country. at one extreme are absolute bans on private ownership of satellite receiving equipment. some countries, however, have adopted a less restrictive approach, opting to allow ownership of satellite receiving equipment by certain institutions and individuals but allowing them to receive only authorized broadcasts. at the opposite end of the spectrum are countries where private satellite dish ownership is allowed and laws and regulations have been adopted which support popular access to satellite services through local cable redistribution. most television services within asia, whether free-to-air or pay television, are also subject to licensing requirements. in addition, most countries in which the company operates control the content offered by local broadcast operators through censorship requirements to which program suppliers, such as the company, are subject. certain countries also require a minimum percentage of local content. other countries require local broadcast operators to obtain government approval to retransmit foreign programming. additional categories of regulation of actual or potential significance to the company are restrictions on foreign investment in distribution platforms, television programming production, limitations on exclusive arrangements for channel distribution and non-discrimination requirements for supply or carriage of programming and anti-competition or anti-trust legislation. such restrictions are different in each country. india. in india, private satellite dish ownership, including dth, is allowed. television viewers receive broadcast television signals primarily through terrestrial and cable delivery and, in more recent years, through dth and iptv delivery. terrestrial broadcasting remains the domain of government-owned broadcast stations. all cable television operators are required to carry certain government-operated channels. retransmissions of foreign satellite channels, such as star india channels, are permitted, subject to licensing requirements and compliance with local applicable laws, including programming and advertisement codes. the indian government requires that all cinematograph film and media content, whether produced in india or abroad, be certified by the central board of film certification prior to exhibition in india and also places certain restrictions on advertising content. the indian broadcasting foundation has issued self regulatory guidelines that apply to the programming on non-news and current affairs channels. limits are imposed by the indian government on the increase in the year-on-year prices payable by cable operators to broadcasters for all pay and free-to-air channels, including the company channels. further, certain areas have been notified for pay channels to be compulsorily provided through conditional access systems where cable operators are required to provide such channels at a capped retail price, of which the broadcasters share is restricted to 45%. the wholesale and retail pricing tariffs are presently under review consequent to intervention by the indian courts. while there is no tariff regulation for dth at retail level, broadcasters are required to offer their channels to dth platforms at 42% of the rates charged to analogue cable operators pursuant to an interim order by the supreme court of india. broadcasters are also required to provide their channels on 23 table of contents non-discriminatory terms to all distributors if no carriage charges are being sought from broadcasters. in october 2011, an ordinance was issued in india mandating that cable networks switch from analog to digital addressable systems. this ordinance was followed by a notification outlining the timelines for switch off of analog cable systems in phases. when enacted, the ordinance amended the cable television act and new rules were issued. the telecom regulatory authority of india ( trai ) devised new interconnect regulations for digital addressable cable systems and issued amendments to the tariff order for digital addressable cable systems mandating that inter alia basic service tiers comprised of free-to-air channels be compulsorily offered to consumers. regulations on consumer grievance redressal and quality of service were also issued by trai. when implemented, this new regime will replace the dispensation described above which capped in certain areas of india the retail prices and restricted broadcasters share to 45%. the first phase of this new regime is expected to be implemented in fiscal 2013 with the first compliance deadline extended by the central government to october 31, 2012 for the cities of kolkata, chennai, delhi and mumbai. trai has also enacted regulations in may 2012 which would limit the amount of advertising time allowed on television channels. such regulations have been challenged and the application of such regulations has been stayed by the indian courts. latin america. the company broadcasts television programming throughout approximately 18 latin american countries, as well as the caribbean. certain countries in which the company operates have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. these regulations vary in each country as does their impact on the company business. in argentina, the government has required pay tv operators to carry certain government operated channels, imposed restrictions on the ability to effectuate price increases on rates charged to pay tv operators, reduced by half the available advertising inventory on the channels and enforced regulations affecting the withholding tax on advertisers purchasing advertising inventory on international channels. the company is working to minimize the impact of the reduction of advertising inventory and tax implications on advertisers. in addition, the government in argentina has implemented certain measures in currency exchange controls which have caused significant impediments and limitations to any person or entity moving money out of the country resulting in exposure to currency devaluation. in mexico, the regulatory agency limited ad inventory to a strict six minutes per hour. in brazil, a new media law requires, among other things: (i) that all channels distributed in the region contain at least three hours and thirty minutes per week of brazilian content during prime time hours, half of which must be produced by a brazilian independent producer; (ii) registration of all channels, programmers, local content and advertisements; (iii) website disclosure of programming and advertising content to ensure compliance with tax and other regulations; and (iv) mediation of local agency requirements and taxation on all advertising that is contracted abroad. while such tax shall primarily be paid by advertisers, programmers are ultimately responsible for the tax payment, and failure by advertisers to pay the required tax could subject programmers to fines or penalties. compliance with the new media law increases the cost of doing business in the form of production/acquisition costs as well as third party administrative and legal expenses. europe. the sectors in which the company operates in europe are subject to both general competition laws and sector specific regulation. the regulatory regime applicable to the electronic communications and broadcasting sectors is, to a large extent, based on european union ( eu ) law comprised in various eu directives that require eu member states to adopt national legislation to give effect to the directives objectives, while leaving the precise manner and form of the national legislation to the discretion of each member state. the electronic communications directives regulate the provision of communication services, including networks and transmission services that are involved in the broadcasting of television services as well as the provisions of services and facilities associated with the operation of digital television platforms. the audiovisual media services directive sets out the basic principles for the regulation of television broadcasting activity, including broadcasting licensing, advertising and content regulation. in connection with the company acquisition of telepi&ugrave; spa and stream spa to form sky italia in 2003, the ec placed on the operations of sky italia certain regulatory restrictions, which expired december 31, 2011. 24 table of contents filmed entertainment united states. ffe is subject to the provisions of so-called trade practice laws in effect in 25 states relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. these laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain instances, also prohibit payment of advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by exhibitors. further, pursuant to various consent judgments, ffe and certain other motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on their trade practices in the united states, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis and, in some cases, a prohibition against the ownership of theaters. other international regulation. in countries outside of the united states, there are a variety of existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations that may affect the ability of ffe to distribute and/or license its motion picture and television products to cinema, television or in-home media, including copyright laws and regulations that may or may not be adequate to protect its interests, cinema screen quotas, television quotas, contract term limitations, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of u.s. products. the ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements, including the world trade organization general agreement on tariffs and trade and general agreement on trade and services; however, these agreements have limited application with respect to preventing the denial of market access to audio-visual products originating outside the european union. television in general, the television broadcast industry in the united states is highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc regulates television broadcasting, and certain aspects of the operations of cable, satellite and other electronic media that compete with broadcasting, pursuant to the communications act of 1934, as amended (the communications act ). the communications act permits the operation of television broadcast stations only in accordance with a license issued by the fcc upon a finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. the fcc grants television broadcast station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms. under the communications act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum permitted term of eight years. generally, the fcc renews broadcast licenses upon finding that: (i) the television station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. after considering these factors, the fcc may grant the license renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted, or hold an evidentiary hearing. fox television stations has pending renewal applications for a number of its television station licenses. seven of the pending applications have been opposed by third parties. on june 13, 2007 and may 15, 2008, fox television stations entered into agreements with the fcc that preclude it from objecting, on the grounds that such action is barred by certain statutes of limitations, to fcc or other governmental action relating to (i) petitions to deny or complaints that have been filed against several owned and operated stations relating to programming that is alleged to violate the prohibition against indecent broadcasts or (ii) inquiries from the fcc regarding compliance with its sponsorship identification rules. for information on the television stations owned and operated by the company, see fox television stations above. in march 2010, the fcc delivered its national broadband plan to congress, which reviews the nation broadband internet infrastructure and recommends a number of initiatives to spur broadband deployment and use. in order to free up more spectrum for wireless broadband services, the broadband plan proposes to make 25 table of contents spectrum available, including 120 megahertz of broadcast spectrum, by incentivizing current private-sector spectrum holders to return some of their spectrum to the government by 2015 through such initiatives as voluntary incentive spectrum auctions (with current licensees permitted to share in the auction proceeds) and repacking of channel assignments to increase efficient spectrum usage. if voluntary measures fail to yield the amount of spectrum the fcc deems necessary for wireless broadband deployment, the broadband plan proposes various mandates to reclaim spectrum, such as forced channel sharing. in response to the broadband plan, congress passed legislation in february 2012 authorizing the fcc to conduct voluntary auctions of television broadcast station spectrum. stations that continue their operations may have to change channels once the fcc repacks broadcast spectrum. the legislation requires the fcc to assist stations in retaining their current coverage areas, provides that no stations will be forced into the vhf band and establishes a fund to reimburse broadcasters for reasonable channel relocation expenses. the broadcast industry is exploring additional uses for currently allocated spectrum. in april 2010, fox television stations and eleven other major broadcast station group owners formed mobile content venture ( mcv ), a joint venture to develop a new national mobile content service utilizing the stations digital broadcast spectrum. mcv is expected to launch in 35 markets by the end of 2012. it is expected that fcc auctions and repacking will involve multiple rulemaking proceedings and may take several years to complete. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of implementation of the broadband plan, fcc spectrum auctions and repacking, or their effect on the company. on february 4, 2008, the fcc issued an order that concluded the quadrennial review of its broadcast ownership regulations required by the 1996 telecom act (the february 2008 order ). the fcc decided there should be no changes to its multiple ownership rules relating to the ownership of more than one television station in the same market. those rules (i) permit the ownership of two television stations with overlapping coverage areas if the stations are in separate dmas; and (ii) permit the ownership of two stations in the same dma if their grade b coverage areas do not overlap or if eight independently owned full power television stations will remain in the dma after the stations that had been independently owned become commonly owned, and one of the merged stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. the fcc modified its rule prohibiting common ownership of a broadcast station and a newspaper in the same market to allow such combinations in certain situations. the february 2008 order was appealed by several parties, including the company. on july 7, 2011, the united states court of appeals for the third circuit affirmed the fcc decision to retain its multiple ownership rules and vacated and remanded the revision to the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule on the grounds the fcc failed to comply with procedural notice and comment requirements. on december 22, 2011, the fcc commenced the next quadrennial review, in which it proposed minor modifications to its ownership regulations. none of the proposed modifications would affect the impact of the fcc ownership rules on the company current ownership of media properties. the company has filed comments in the current proceeding, which is pending. fox television stations is in compliance with the rules governing ownership of multiple stations in the same market and with the national station ownership cap established by congress. fox television stations retains an attributable interest in the post and two television stations in the new york dma. on october 6, 2006, the fcc reaffirmed the company permanent waiver of the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, which allows the common ownership of the post and wnyw(tv), and granted a two-year temporary waiver of the rule to continue to allow the common ownership of the post and wwor-tv (the october 2006 order ). the company has asked the fcc to extend the permanent waiver to wwor-tv. the temporary waiver remains in effect pursuant to fcc precedent pending fcc action on this request. parties opposed to the october 2006 order filed a petition for reconsideration with the fcc, which was denied on may 22, 2009. other opponents of the october 2006 order have asked the fcc to reconsider its may 22, 2009 decision and have filed an opposition to the company request for a permanent waiver. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the fcc action on this request for reconsideration or its effect on the company. under the communications act, no broadcast stations may be owned by a corporation if more than 25% of its stock is owned or voted by non-u.s. persons, their representatives, or by any other corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country. on april 18, 2012, the company announced that it had determined that 26 table of contents approximately 36% of the company class b common stock is owned by non-u.s. stakeholders, and the combined ownership of class a common stock and class b common stock by non-u.s. stockholders is approximately 22% of the combined outstanding shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. as authorized by the company restated certificate of incorporation and in order to ensure compliance with the communications act, the company suspended 50% of the voting rights of the class b common stock held by non-u.s. stockholders. this suspension will remain in place for as long as the company deems it necessary to maintain compliance with the act. the fcc could review the company compliance with the act in connection with its consideration of fox television stations license renewal applications. fcc regulations implementing the cable television consumer protection and competition act of 1992 require each television broadcaster to elect, at three-year intervals, either to (i) require carriage of its signal by cable systems in the station market ( must carry ) or (ii) negotiate the terms on which that broadcast station would permit transmission of its signal by the cable systems within its market ( retransmission consent ). generally, the company has elected retransmission consent for the stations owned and operated by fox television stations. the satellite home viewer improvement act of 1999 requires satellite carriers to carry upon request all television stations located in markets in which the satellite carrier retransmits at least one local station pursuant to the copyright license provided in the statute ( carry one, carry all ). fcc regulations implementing this statutory provision require affected stations to elect either mandatory carriage at the same three year intervals applicable to cable must carry or negotiate carriage terms with the satellite operators. several cable and satellite operators filed a petition for rulemaking with the fcc seeking changes in the retransmission consent regulations, including the imposition of mandatory arbitration and required interim carriage in the event the broadcaster and distributor fail to reach a carriage agreement. in march 2011, the fcc responded by initiating a rulemaking to explore changes to its retransmission consent regulations. the fcc tentatively concluded that it does not have the power to order mandatory arbitration or interim carriage and instead sought comment on modifications to its rules affecting retransmission consent negotiations, including providing more guidance under the fcc good faith negotiation standard, improving notice to consumers in advance of possible disruptions of tv station carriage and eliminating program exclusivity rules that restrict cable and satellite operators ability to negotiate for alternative access to network programming. among other things, the fcc sought comment on whether it should be a per se violation of good faith negotiation requirements for a station to agree to give its network the right to approve retransmission consent agreements or to comply with such an approval requirement in the network affiliation agreement. the broadcast industry, including fox entertainment group and fox television stations, has filed comments opposing changes to the current retransmission consent regime. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the rulemaking or its effect on the company. legislation enacted in 1990 limits the amount of commercial matter that may be broadcast during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. in addition, under fcc license renewal processing guidelines, television stations are generally required to broadcast a minimum of three hours per week of programming, which, among other requirements, must serve, as a significant purpose, the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and under. a television station found not to have complied with the programming requirements or commercial limitations could face sanctions, including monetary fines and the possible non-renewal of its license. fcc rules prohibit the broadcast by television and radio stations of indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. beginning in march 2004, the fcc implemented a new policy regarding this prohibition and generally stepped up its enforcement of indecency violations. under the new policy, the single use of certain forbidden expletives, or variations of those expletives, were deemed indecent and profane. the fcc also warned broadcasters that serious multiple violations of the indecency prohibition could lead to license revocation proceedings, and that fines could be imposed for each incident in a single broadcast. under the new fcc policy, both complaints about indecency and fcc enforcement actions have increased, and several complaints alleging the broadcast of alleged indecent or profane material by fox television stations are pending at the fcc. as of june 2006, the law authorizes the fcc to impose fines of up to $325,000 per incident for violation of the prohibition against indecent and profane broadcasts. 27 table of contents on march 15, 2006, the fcc determined that the 2002 and 2003 billboard music awards programs, both live broadcasts on fox, violated the prohibitions against indecent and profane broadcasts because they contained isolated uses of the forbidden expletives (the march 15 order ). however, since these broadcasts preceded the fcc march 2004 policy, no forfeiture or other penalty was imposed. nonetheless, in april 2006, fox television stations appealed the march 15 order to the second circuit court of appeals (the second circuit ). on june 4, 2007, the second circuit granted fox appeal, vacating the march 15 order as well as the fcc new policy on fleeting expletives in its entirety on the grounds that both were arbitrary and capricious. the united states obtained review by the u.s. supreme court, which reversed the second circuit decision and remanded the case back to the second circuit for consideration of the constitutional issues that had been raised before but not yet decided by that court. on june 13, 2010, the second circuit vacated the march 15 order and the fcc indecency policy underlying it on the grounds that the policy is unconstitutionally vague and violates the first amendment. on june 21, 2012, the supreme court decided that the fcc failed to give fox fair notice that the isolated use of expletives could violate the indecency prohibition and therefore the commission standards as applied to the broadcasts in question were unconstitutionally vague. the court vacated the violations for the billboard music awards broadcasts and reversed the second circuit decision on the constitutionality of the fcc underlying indecency policy. it is not possible to predict the implications of the supreme court action for future fcc enforcement of its indecency rules. on february 22, 2008, the fcc issued an order imposing forfeitures of $7,000 each on 13 fox affiliates, including five stations owned and operated by the company, on the grounds that an april 7, 2003 episode of the program married by america violated the prohibition against indecent broadcasts. on april 4, 2008, the united states commenced an action in federal district court in the district of columbia against the five company-owned stations to collect the forfeitures imposed by the fcc. one of the stations, wdaf-tv, subsequently paid the $7,000 forfeiture and was dismissed from the case in connection with the sale of that station by the company to oak hill capital partners in july 2008. the company moved to dismiss the suit on several grounds, including that the fcc forfeiture order is unconstitutional. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of this case or its effect on the company. modifications to the company programming to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on the competitive position of fox television stations and fox. if indecency regulation is extended to cable and satellite programming, and such extension was found to be constitutional, some of the company cable programming services could be subject to additional regulation that might affect subscription and viewership levels. the fcc continues to enforce strictly its regulations concerning political advertising, children television, environmental concerns, equal employment opportunity, technical operating matters and antenna tower maintenance. fcc rules require the closed captioning of almost all broadcast and cable programming. a federal law enacted in late 2010 requires affiliates of the four largest broadcast networks in the 25 largest markets to carry 50 hours of prime time or children programming per calendar quarter with video descriptions, i.e., a verbal description of key visual elements is inserted into natural pauses in the audio and broadcast over a separate audio channel. cable and satellite operators with 50,000 or more subscribers must do the same on each of the top five non-broadcast networks they carry. compliance is required by july 1, 2012 and will apply to fox affiliates in the top 25 markets. fox news channel, which is among the top five non-broadcast networks, falls within the statutory exemption for live or near-live programming. the same statute requires programming that was captioned on television to retain captions when distributed via the internet protocol. although not required by fcc regulation, the company has committed to provide program ratings information for its broadcast network programming for use in conjunction with v chip technology, which blocks the display of television programming based on its rating. the company has also agreed to make this ratings information available for all full-length entertainment programs that stream on websites the company controls. fcc regulations governing network affiliation agreements mandate that television broadcast station licensees retain the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance. violation of fcc regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, periodic reporting conditions, short-term license renewals and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of license. 28 table of contents internet the children online privacy protection act of 1998 ( coppa ) prohibits websites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. the controlling the assault of non-solicited pornography and marketing act of 2003 ( can-spam ) regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or spam. online services provided by the company may be subject to coppa and can-spam requirements. federal regulators interest in issues of privacy, cybersecurity and data security has been steadily increasing. on february 23, 2012, the administration issued a white paper on consumer data privacy that includes a consumer privacy bill of rights. the administration is convening a multi-stakeholder process to implement the bill of rights through industry codes of conduct that would be enforceable by the federal trade commission ( ftc ) and state attorneys general. the administration also announced it would work with congress to implement these rights through legislation. on march 26, 2012, the ftc released a report on consumer privacy, which sets forth a detailed privacy framework and urges industry to accelerate the pace of adoption of self-regulatory measures, including more widespread adoption of a do-not-track browser mechanism. the report also recommends that congress consider baseline privacy legislation incorporating the principles articulated in the framework. a number of privacy and data security bills have been introduced in both houses of congress that address the collection, maintenance and use of personal information, web browsing and geolocation data, data security and breach notification requirements, and cybersecurity. several congressional hearings have examined privacy implications for online, offline and mobile data. some state legislatures have already adopted legislation that regulates how businesses operate on the internet, including measures relating to privacy, data security and data breaches. the industry released a set of self-regulatory online behavioral advertising principles in 2009, which have been implemented by web publishers, online advertisers and online advertising networks. in november 2011, these principles were extended to the use of online consumer data for purposes other than advertising. it is unclear whether these and other industry self-regulatory efforts alone will address the concerns expressed by some federal and state officials about the collection of anonymous data online or via mobile applications to serve targeted content and advertising. it is not possible to predict whether proposed privacy and data security legislation will be enacted or to determine what effect such legislation might have on the company business. foreign governments are raising similar privacy and data security concerns. in particular, the eu has proposed a new privacy regulation (the eu regulation ) that would replace the current data protection directive, would tighten regulation of the collection, use and security of online data and would continue to restrict the trans-border flow of data. european industry has implemented a self-regulatory regime for online behavioral advertising that is largely consistent with the u.s. self-regulatory framework. the proposed eu regulation will not be effective for at least three or four years and may undergo many changes before it is adopted. it is unclear how the final eu regulation would affect the company business. the company monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments. raw materials as a major publisher of newspapers, magazines, free-standing inserts and books, the company utilizes substantial quantities of various types of paper. in order to obtain the best available prices, substantially all of the company paper purchasing is done on a centralized, volume purchase basis, and draws upon major paper manufacturing countries around the world. the company believes that under present market conditions, its sources of paper supply used in its publishing activities are adequate. 29 table of contents intellectual property the company intellectual property assets include: copyrights in motion pictures, television programming, newspapers, books, magazines, websites and technologies; trademarks in names, logos and characters; domain names; patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds. the company derives value from these assets through the theatrical release of films and the production, distribution and/or licensing of its films and television programming to domestic and international television and cable networks, pay television services, pay-per-view, video-on-demand services and dth satellite services, operation of websites, and through the sale of products, such as dvds, blu-rays, books, newspapers and magazines, among others. the company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property in the united states and other key foreign territories. to protect these assets, the company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other laws and contract provisions. however, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the company intellectual property. the company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives, deploying digital rights management technologies, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property. third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the company intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. irrespective of their validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the company operations. moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. therefore, the company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement. item 1a. risk factors prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set forth below before making an investment in the company securities. a decline in advertising expenditures could cause the company revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on or in its television stations, broadcast and cable networks, newspapers, integrated marketing services, digital media properties and direct broadcast satellite services. expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. a decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. demand for the company products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. for example, ratings points for the company television stations, broadcast and cable networks and circulation levels for the company newspapers are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates, and with respect to the company television stations and broadcast and television networks, when determining the affiliate rates received by the company. in addition, newer technologies, including new video formats, streaming and downloading capabilities via the internet, video-on-demand, personal video recorders, digital distribution models for books and other devices and technologies are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences. some of these devices and technologies allow users to view television or motion pictures from a remote location 30 table of contents or on a time-delayed basis and provide users the ability to fast-forward, rewind, pause and skip programming and advertisements. these technological developments are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences and may cause changes in consumer behavior that could affect the attractiveness of the company offerings to viewers, advertisers and/or distributors. a decrease in advertising expenditures or reduced demand for the company offerings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the company businesses and assets. global economic conditions may have a continuing adverse effect on the company business. the united states and global economies have undergone a period of economic uncertainty, which caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, limited access to the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending and lower consumer net worth. the resulting pressure on the labor and retail markets and the downturn in consumer confidence weakened the economic climate in certain markets in which the company does business and has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the company business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. a continued decline in these economic conditions could further impact the company business, reduce the company advertising and other revenues and negatively impact the performance of its motion pictures and home entertainment releases, television operations, newspapers, books and other consumer products. in addition, these conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom the company does business to satisfy their obligations to the company. as a result, the company results of operations may be adversely affected. although the company believes that its operating cash flow and current access to capital and credit markets, including the company existing credit facility, will give it the ability to meet its financial needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair the company liquidity or increase its cost of borrowing. acceptance of the company film and television programming by the public is difficult to predict, which could lead to fluctuations in revenues. feature film and television production and distribution are speculative businesses since the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a feature film or television series depend primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. the commercial success of a feature film or television series also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing films and television series released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of a growing number of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and their effects on consumer spending and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. further, the theatrical success of a feature film and the audience ratings for a television series are generally key factors in generating revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and premium pay television, with respect to feature films, and syndication, with respect to television series. the company could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets and programming. in accordance with applicable generally accepted accounting principles, the company performs an annual impairment assessment of its recorded goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including fcc licenses and mastheads, during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. the company also continually evaluates whether current factors or indicators, such as the prevailing conditions in the capital markets, require the performance of an interim impairment assessment of those assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets. any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or the expected popularity of the programming for which the company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of certain reporting units, particularly those in the publishing, television and cable network programming segments. a downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit, indefinite-lived intangible assets, investments or long-lived assets could result in an impairment and a non-cash charge would be required. any such charge could be material to the company reported net earnings. 31 table of contents fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could have an adverse effect on the company results of operations. the company has significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of the company operations are conducted in foreign currencies. the value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations in a given period or in specific markets. the loss of carriage agreements could cause the company revenue and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with third party owned television stations and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to the company. the loss of a significant number of these affiliation arrangements could reduce the distribution of fox and mynetworktv and adversely affect the company ability to sell national and local advertising time. similarly, the company cable networks maintain affiliation and carriage arrangements that enable them to reach a large percentage of cable and direct broadcast satellite households across the united states. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the company cable networks, which may adversely affect those networks revenues from subscriber fees and their ability to sell national and local advertising time. the inability to renew sports programming rights could cause the company advertising revenue to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the sports rights contracts between the company, on the one hand, and various professional sports leagues and teams, on the other, have varying duration and renewal terms. as these contracts expire, renewals on favorable terms may be sought; however, third parties may outbid the current rights holders for the rights contracts. in addition, professional sports leagues or teams may create their own networks or the renewal costs could substantially exceed the original contract cost. the loss of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by the company and its affiliates, as it relates to fox, and could adversely affect the company advertising and affiliate revenues. upon renewal, the company results could be adversely affected if escalations in sports programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in advertising rates and, in the case of cable networks, subscriber fees. the company relies on network and information systems and other technology that may be subject to disruption or misuse, which could result in improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information as well as increased costs or loss of revenue. network and information systems and other technologies, including those related to our network management, are important to our business activities. network and information systems-related events, such as computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing, could result in a disruption of our services or improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information. improper disclosure of such information could harm our reputation, require us to expend resources to remedy such a security breach or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. technological developments may increase the threat of content piracy and signal theft and limit the company ability to protect its intellectual property rights. the company seeks to limit the threat of content piracy and direct broadcast satellite programming signal theft; however, policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken by the company may not in every case prevent the infringement by 32 table of contents unauthorized third parties. developments in technology, including digital copying, file compressing and the growing penetration of high-bandwidth internet connections, increase the threat of content piracy by making it easier to duplicate and widely distribute pirated material. in addition, developments in software or devices that circumvent encryption technology increase the threat of unauthorized use and distribution of direct broadcast satellite programming signals and the proliferation of user-generated content sites and live and stored video streaming sites, which deliver unauthorized copies of copyrighted content, including those emanating from other countries in various languages, may adversely impact the company businesses. the company has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy and signal theft, both individually and, in some instances, together with industry associations. however, protection of the company intellectual property rights is dependent on the scope and duration of the company rights as defined by applicable laws in the united states and abroad and the manner in which those laws are construed. if those laws are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of the company rights, or if existing laws are changed, the company ability to generate revenue from intellectual property may decrease, or the cost of obtaining and maintaining rights may increase. there can be no assurance that the company efforts to enforce its rights and protect its products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy or signal theft. content piracy and signal theft present a threat to the company revenues from products and services, including, but not limited to, films, television shows, books and direct broadcast satellite programming. the company must respond to changes in consumer behavior as a result of new technologies in order to remain competitive. technology, particularly digital technology used in the entertainment industry, continues to evolve rapidly, leading to alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content. these technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume digital content. content owners are increasingly delivering their content directly to consumers over the internet, often without charge, and innovations in distribution platforms have enabled consumers to view such internet-delivered content on televisions and portable devices. there is a risk that the company responses to these changes and strategies to remain competitive, including distribution of its content on a pay basis, may not be adopted by consumers. in addition, enhanced internet capabilities and other new media may reduce television viewership, the demand for dvds and blu-rays, the desire to see motion pictures in theaters and the demand for newspapers, which could negatively affect the company revenues. in publishing, the trending toward digital media may drive down the price consumers are willing to spend on our products disproportionately to the costs associated with generating literary content. the company failure to protect and exploit the value of its content, while responding to and developing new technology and business models to take advantage of advancements in technology and the latest consumer preferences, could have a significant adverse effect on the company businesses, asset values and results of operations. labor disputes may have an adverse effect on the company business. in a variety of the company businesses, the company and its partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements, including employees of the company film and television studio operations and newspapers. if the company or its partners are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on the company business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins. changes in u.s. or foreign regulations may have an adverse effect on the company business. the company is subject to a variety of u.s. and foreign regulations in the jurisdictions in which its businesses operate. in general, the television broadcasting and multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the united states are highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by 33 table of contents various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc generally regulates, among other things, the ownership of media, broadcast and multichannel video programming and technical operations of broadcast licensees. our program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as content regulation, user privacy and data protection, and consumer protection, among others. further, the united states congress, the fcc and state legislatures currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters, including technological changes and measures relating to privacy and data security, which could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of the company u.s. media properties. similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which the company, or entities in which the company has an interest, operate could adversely affect its business and results of operations. in addition, changes in tax laws, regulations or the interpretations thereof in the u.s. and other jurisdictions in which the company has operations could affect the company results of operations. u.s. citizenship requirements may limit common stock ownership and voting rights. the company owns broadcast station licensees in connection with its ownership and operation of u.s. television stations. under u.s. law, no broadcast station licensee may be owned by a corporation if more than 25% of its stock is owned or voted by non-u.s. persons, their representatives, or by any other corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country. the company restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the board to prevent, cure or mitigate the effect of stock ownership above the applicable foreign ownership threshold by taking any action including: refusing to permit any transfer of common stock to or ownership of common stock by a non-u.s. stockholder; voiding a transfer of common stock to a non-u.s. stockholder; suspending rights of stock ownership if held by a non-u.s. stockholder; or redeeming common stock held by a non-u.s. stockholder. on april 18, 2012, the company announced that it had determined that approximately 36% of the company class b common stock is owned by non-u.s. stockholders, and the combined ownership of class a common stock and class b common stock by non-u.s. stockholders is approximately 22% of the combined outstanding shares of class a common stock and class b common stock. in order to ensure compliance with u.s. law, the company suspended 50% of the voting rights of the class b common stock held by non-u.s. stockholders. this suspension will remain in place for as long as the company deems it necessary to maintain compliance with applicable u.s. law. the company is not able to predict whether it will need to adjust the suspension or whether additional action pursuant to its restated certificate of incorporation may be necessary. the fcc could review the company compliance with applicable u.s. law in connection with its consideration of the company renewal applications for licenses to operate the broadcast stations the company owns. we face criminal investigations regarding allegations of phone hacking and inappropriate payments to public officials and other related matters and related civil lawsuits. u.k. and u.s. regulators and governmental authorities are conducting investigations initiated in 2011 after allegations of phone hacking and inappropriate payments to public officials at our former publication, the news of the world , and other related matters, including investigations into whether similar conduct may have occurred at the company subsidiaries outside of the u.k. the company is cooperating fully with these investigations. the company has admitted liability in a number of civil cases related to the phone hacking allegations and has settled a number of cases. the company has announced a process under which parties can pursue claims against the company, and management believes that it is probable that additional claims will be filed. we are not able to predict the ultimate outcome or cost of the investigations. violations of law may result in civil, administrative or criminal fines or penalties. it is also possible that these proceedings could damage our reputation and might impair our ability to conduct our business. any fees, expenses, fines, penalties, judgments or settlements which might be incurred by the company in connection with the various proceedings could affect the company results of operations and financial condition. 34 table of contents the proposed separation of the company publishing and media and entertainment businesses into two distinct publicly traded companies may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all. in june 2012, the company announced its intention to pursue the separation of its publishing and media and entertainment businesses into two distinct publicly traded companies (the proposed separation transaction ). unanticipated developments could delay or negatively impact the proposed separation transaction, including those related to the filing and effectiveness of appropriate filings with the sec, obtaining favorable rulings from certain tax jurisdictions regarding the tax-free nature of the transaction to the company and its stockholders, obtaining opinions from tax counsel and regulatory approvals, completing further due diligence as appropriate, and changes in market conditions, among other things. in addition, consummation of the proposed separation transaction will require final approval from the company board of directors and stockholders. therefore, we cannot assure that we will be able to complete the proposed separation transaction on the terms or on the timeline that we announced, if at all. we are actively engaged in planning for the proposed separation transaction. we expect to incur expenses in connection with the proposed separation transaction and any delays in the anticipated completion of the proposed separation transaction may increase these expenses. in addition, completion of the proposed separation transaction will require significant amounts of our management time and effort which may divert management attention from our businesses. the proposed separation transaction may result in the division of key employees into the two separate public companies which may create a knowledge and skill gap. further, shares of our common stock will represent an investment in two smaller separate public companies. these changes may not meet some stockholders investment strategies, which could cause investors to sell their shares of our common stock in either company. excessive selling could cause the relative market price of common stock in either or both companies to decrease following completion of the proposed separation transaction. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 79 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has exposure to several types of market risk: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and stock prices. the company neither holds nor issues financial instruments for trading purposes. the following sections provide quantitative information on the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and stock price risk. the company makes use of sensitivity analyses that are inherently limited in estimating actual losses in fair value that can occur from changes in market conditions. foreign currency exchange rates the company conducts operations in four principal currencies: the u.s. dollar; the british pound sterling; the euro; and the australian dollar. these currencies operate as the functional currency for the company u.s., united kingdom, italian and australian operations, respectively. cash is managed centrally within each of the four regions with net earnings reinvested locally and working capital requirements met from existing liquid funds. to the extent such funds are not sufficient to meet working capital requirements, draw downs in the appropriate local currency are available from intercompany borrowings. since earnings of the company australian, united kingdom and italian operations are expected to be reinvested in those businesses indefinitely, the company does not hedge its investment in the net assets of those foreign operations. at june 30, 2012, the company outstanding financial instruments with foreign currency exchange rate risk exposure had an aggregate fair value of $147 million (including the company non-u.s. dollar-denominated fixed rate debt). the potential increase in the fair values of these instruments resulting from a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be approximately $26 million at june 30, 2012. interest rates the company current financing arrangements and facilities include approximately $15,455 million of outstanding fixed-rate debt and the new credit agreement, which carries variable interest. fixed and variable rate debts are impacted differently by changes in interest rates. a change in the interest rate or yield of fixed rate debt will only impact the fair market value of such debt, while a change in the interest rate of variable debt will impact interest expense, as well as the amount of cash required to service such debt. as of june 30, 2012, substantially all of the company financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk were denominated in u.s. dollars and had an aggregate fair value of approximately $18,300 million. the potential change in fair market value for these financial instruments from an adverse 10% change in quoted interest rates across all maturities, often referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve, would be approximately $891 million at june 30, 2012. stock prices the company has common stock investments in several publicly traded companies that are subject to market price volatility. these investments principally represent the company equity method affiliates and had an aggregate fair value of approximately $9,656 million as of june 30, 2012. a hypothetical decrease in the market price of these investments of 10% would result in a fair value of approximately $8,690 million. such a hypothetical decrease would result in a before tax decrease in comprehensive income of approximately $35 million, as any changes in fair value of the company equity method affiliates are not recognized unless deemed other-than-temporary. credit risk cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions of reputable credit and, therefore, bear minimal credit risk. 79 table of contents the company receivables did not represent significant concentrations of credit risk at june 30, 2012 or june 30, 2011 due to the wide variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the company products and services are sold. the company monitors its positions with, and the credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. at june 30, 2012, the company did not anticipate nonperformance by any of the counterparties. 80 table of contentsrisk factors 25 risk factors for certain risk factors relating to the separation. in july 2011, the company announced that it would close a publication of a news corp subsidiary, the news of the world , after allegations of phone hacking and payments to public officials. the company and news corp are subject to ongoing investigations by u.k. and u.s. regulators and governmental authorities relating to phone hacking, illegal data access and inappropriate payments to officials at the news of the world and the sun and related matters (the u.k. newspaper matters ). in connection with the separation, the company and news corp entered into a separation and distribution agreement (the separation and distribution agreement ) that provides that the company will indemnify news corp, on an after-tax basis, for payments made after the separation arising out of civil claims and investigations relating to the u.k. newspaper matters, as well as legal and professional fees and expenses paid in connection with the related criminal matters, other than fees, expenses and costs relating to employees who are not (i) directors, officers or certain designated employees or (ii) with respect to civil matters, co-defendants with news corp. in june 2010, the company announced that it had proposed to the board of directors of british sky broadcasting group plc ( bskyb ), in which the company currently has an approximate 39% interest, to make a cash offer of 700 pence per share for the bskyb shares that the company does not already own. following the allegations regarding the news of the world , on july 13, 2011, the company announced that it no longer intended to make an offer for the bskyb shares that the company does not already own. as a result of the july 2011 announcement, the company paid bskyb a breakup fee of approximately $63 million in accordance with a cooperation agreement between the parties. the company maintains a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the sunday nearest to june 30 in each year. through its predecessor, the company was incorporated in 1979 under the company act 1961 of south australia, 1 table of contents australia. at june 30, 2013, the company had approximately 25,600 full-time employees. the company principal executive offices are located at 1211 avenue of the americas, new york, new york 10036 and its telephone number is (212) 852-7000. the company website is www.21cf.com . the company annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended (the exchange act ), are available, free of charge, through the company website as soon as reasonably practicable after the material is electronically filed with or furnished to the u.s. securities and exchange commission (the sec ). such reports may also be obtained without charge from the company, and paper copies of any exhibits to such reports are also available for a reasonable fee per page charge to the requesting stockholder. any materials that the company filed with the sec also may be read and copied at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec (http://www.sec.gov). special note regarding forward-looking statements this document and the documents incorporated by reference into this annual report, including item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, contain statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the exchange act and section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended. the words expect, estimate, anticipate, predict, believe and similar expressions and variations thereof are intended to identify forward-looking statements. these statements appear in a number of places and include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of the company, its directors or its officers with respect to, among other things, trends affecting the company financial condition or results of operations and the outcome of contingencies such as litigation and investigations. readers are cautioned that any forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties. more information regarding these risks, uncertainties and other factors is set forth under the heading item 1a. risk factors in this annual report. the company does not ordinarily make projections of its future operating results and undertakes no obligation (and expressly disclaims any obligation) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. readers should carefully review this document and the other documents filed by the company with the sec. this section should be read together with the consolidated financial statements of 21st century fox and related notes set forth elsewhere in this annual report. business overview the company is a diversified global media and entertainment company, which manages and reports its businesses in the five segments described below. cable network programming the company produces and licenses news, business news, sports, general entertainment and movie programming for distribution primarily through cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite operators and telecommunications companies in the united states and internationally. fox news . fox news owns and operates the fox news channel, the top rated 24/7 all news national cable channel currently available in more than 97 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research, as well as the fox business network which is currently available in more than 74 million u.s. households. fox news also produces a weekend political commentary show, fox news sunday , for broadcast on local fox television stations throughout the united states. fox news, through its fox news edge service, licenses 2 table of contents news feeds to fox affiliates and other subscribers to use as part of local news broadcasts throughout the united states and abroad. fox news also produces and runs the websites, foxnews.com and foxbusiness.com, and owns and produces the national fox news radio network, which licenses news updates and long form programs to local radio stations and to satellite radio providers. fsn . fox sports net, inc. ( fsn, inc. ) is the largest regional sports network ( rsn ) programmer in the united states, focusing on live professional and major collegiate home team sports events. fsn, inc. sports programming business currently consists primarily of ownership interests in 15 rsns, including sportstime ohio and a 49% ownership in the yankees entertainment and sports network ( yes network ), each of which were acquired in december 2012, and numerous sub-regional feeds (the fsn rsns ) and national sports programming, which operates fsn ( fsn ), a national sports programming service. fsn is affiliated with an additional four rsns that are not owned by fsn, inc. (the fsn affiliated rsns ). fsn provides the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns with national sports programming, featuring original and licensed sports-related programming, as well as live and replay sporting events. in the aggregate, the fsn rsns and the fsn affiliated rsns currently have approximately 83 million subscribers and have rights to telecast live games of 51 of 81 u.s. professional sports teams in major league baseball ( mlb ), the national basketball association and the national hockey league; collegiate conferences; and numerous college and high school sports teams. fox sports 1. in august 2013, the company plans to launch fox sports 1, a multi-sport national cable network. in its inaugural year, fox sports 1 will feature over 650 live events, including college football and basketball, uefa champions league and other premier soccer, national association of stock car auto racing ( nascar ), ultimate fighting championship ( ufc ) and, beginning in 2014, regular and post-season mlb games. in addition, fox sports 1 will premiere a nightly multi-hour live national sports news show, fox sports live, and original and documentary programming and daily studio programming, including fox football daily and crowd goes wild. fx. currently reaching close to 100 million u.s. households according to nielsen media research, fx is a general entertainment network that telecasts a growing roster of original series, as well as acquired television series and motion pictures. fx lineup for the 2013-2014 season includes the critically acclaimed sons of anarchy , justified , american horror story and the americans , as well as the first season of the bridge . also included in the 2013-2014 season line-up are the comedies archer , louie , wilfred and the continuing series anger management . fx televises syndicated series including two and a half men and how i met your mother and showcases the television premieres of theatrical motion pictures, which in 2013-2014 will include true grit, x-men: first class and captain america , among others. the company also produces and distributes fx hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. fxx . in september 2013, the company plans to launch fxx, a general entertainment channel aimed primarily at young adults. fxx introductory line-up will include the comedy series it always sunny in philadelphia , the league , totally biased and the premiere season of the animated comedy chozen . in addition, fxx will showcase the television premieres of an extensive slate of theatrical motion pictures including bad teacher , hangover 2 and rango , among others. speed . speed is a 24-hour programming service consisting of motorsports programming. speed brings viewers season-long coverage of the nascar races, events and original programming (including exclusive coverage of the annual nascar sprint all-star race and nascar hall of fame ceremonies), which in the u.s. will appear on fox sports 1 after its launch. in addition, speed delivers programming from other top racing series, such as grand american road racing, the 24 hours of le mans, world of outlaws, ama pro racing, ama supercross, monster jam, world superbike and motogp, many of which instead will be featured on fox sports 1 and fox sports 2 in the united states after their respective launches. speed is distributed to subscribers in canada and the caribbean and by foxtel in australia. the company also produces and distributes speed hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in high definition. 3 table of contents fuel tv . fuel tv is a 24-hour programming service dedicated to thrill seeking sports, as well as high energy entertainment programming, and the lifestyle surrounding it. fuel tv covers ufc, as well as both competitive and performance action in the arenas of surfing, bmx and freestyle motocross. programming includes u.s. and international action sports events and competitions, as well as original series and specials about top athletes. in august 2013, fuel tv will become fox sports 2, a multi-sports national cable network featuring live events from the ufc and nascar, along with rugby, australian football league, world-class soccer and motorsports programming. fox college sports . fox college sports consists of three regionally-aligned networks, fcs pacific, fcs central and fcs atlantic. fox college sports provides live and delayed collegiate events from the nation top collegiate conferences, coaches shows and collegiate highlight and magazine-format programming from the fsn rsns across the country. fox movie channel/fxm . fox movie channel splits its programming into two day parts. from 3am to 3pm, the network is branded as fmc and airs films from the historic library of twentieth century fox, uncut and commercial free. from 3pm to 3am, the network is branded as fxm and utilizes fx roster of box office blockbuster modern day films with revenue generated from advertising. also featured throughout both day parts are documentaries and original series that explore the moviemaking process from script to screen. during the 2013-2014 season, fxm will showcase the television premieres of the theatrical motion pictures love and other drugs and water for elephants , among others. fox soccer channel . fox soccer channel is an english-language programming service offering comprehensive coverage of world-class soccer. top properties include the uefa champions league and uefa europa league, fa cup, the concacaf champions league and the concacaf gold cup, along with daily soccer news programs, magazine shows and in depth coverage on the world most popular sport, many of which instead will be featured on fox sports 1 and fox sports 2 after their respective launches. fox soccer plus . launched in fiscal 2010, fox soccer plus is a premium cable network showcasing nearly 700 exclusive live soccer and rugby competitions. soccer events include matches from the uefa champions league and fa cup. rugby coverage includes matches from the heineken cup, aviva premiership and the national rugby league. big ten network . the company owns an approximate 51% interest in the big ten network, a 24-hour national programming service dedicated to the collegiate big ten conference and big ten athletics, academics and related programming, and big ten network hd, a 24-hour national programming service produced and distributed in hd. national geographic u.s. the national geographic channels air non-fiction and documentary programming on such topics as natural history, adventure, science, exploration and culture. the company holds an approximate 70% interest in ngc network us llc, which produces and distributes the national geographic channel, national geographic channel hd, nat geo wild, nat geo wild hd and nat geo mundo in the united states, with ngt, llc, a subsidiary of the national geographic society, holding the remaining interest. national geographic channel and national geographic channel hd currently reach more than 84 million households in the united states and nat geo wild and nat geo wild hd reach more than 57 million subscribers in the united states according to nielsen media research. internet distribution. the company also distributes programming through its network-branded websites and applications and licenses programming for distribution through the websites and applications of cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite operators, telecommunications companies and online video distributors. the company applications provide live and on-demand streaming of network-related programming, and currently include big ten network application, btn2go, and the broadband network, speed2. 4 table of contents fox international channels ( fic ). fic operates, develops and distributes primarily factual, sports, lifestyle and general entertainment channels in various countries in europe, latin america, africa and asia, including the fox channel, fox life, fx, utilisima (which is also distributed in the united states), fox crime, fox traveller, the voyage channel, fox sports, star world, star movies (also known as fox movies premium in certain countries) and chinese language television programming targeted at chinese-speaking audiences in asia. these channels are distributed either in hd or in standard definition ( sd ) or in certain cases, in both hd and sd. fic owns a 52.2% interest in ngc network international llc and ngc network latin america llc (collectively ngc international ), with ngt, llc holding a 26.8% interest and a subsidiary of bskyb holding a 21% interest. ngc international produces and distributes the national geographic channel in various international markets. ngc international also produces and distributes the national geographic channel hd, the nat geo adventure channel (in both hd and sd), the nat geo wild channel (in both hd and sd) and the nat geo music channel in international markets. the national geographic channel is currently shown in 48 languages and in approximately 171 countries internationally, including the united states. fic owns a 77.5% equity interest in laptv, a partnership that distributes 10 premium pay television channels (moviecity premieres hd, moviecity premieres, moviecity action hd, moviecity action, moviecity family hd, moviecity family, moviecity hollywood hd, moviecity hollywood, moviecity classics and moviecity mundo) and four basic television channels (the film zone hd, the film zone, cinecanal and cinecanal hd) in latin america (excluding brazil). such channels primarily feature theatrical motion pictures of twentieth century fox and three other studio partners dubbed in spanish and/or in the english language with spanish subtitles. fic owns a 50.1% equity interest in elite sports limited, a company that owns and distributes baby tv, a 24-hour channel dedicated to infants and toddlers under three years old. the baby tv channel is currently shown in more than 100 countries, including the united states. in november 2012, fic acquired a controlling 51% ownership stake in eredivisie media &amp; marketing cv ( emm ), a media company that holds the collective media and sponsorship rights of the dutch premier league. the remaining 49% of emm is owned by the dutch premier league and the global tv production company endemol. fic owns fox pan american sports llc, doing business as fox sports latin america ( fsla ), an international sports programming and production entity. fsla owns and operates the fox sports networks in latin america which are comprised of spanish-language sports networks that are distributed to subscribers in mexico and certain caribbean and central and south american countries, as well as fox sports brazil, a portuguese-language sports network specifically geared to the brazilian audience. fsla also owns 100% of fox deportes, a spanish-language sports programming service distributed in the united states. fox deportes (formerly known as fox sports en espa&ntilde;ol), has more than 2,100 hours of live and exclusive programming, including exclusive coverage of premiere soccer matches (such as copa santander libertadores and copa bridgestone sudamericana) and mlb, including all-star, nlcs and world series games. fox deportes reaches more than 20 million cable and satellite households in the united states, of which almost 6 million are hispanic. fic owns a 50% interest in mundofox broadcasting, llc, a joint venture with rcn mf holdings, inc., a latin american television network and production company. in august 2012, the joint venture launched mundofox, a spanish-language broadcast television network targeted at the u.s. hispanic market. mundofox features original news, original and syndicated entertainment programming and access to sporting events and programming. 5 table of contents fic manages channel [v] thailand in which the company owns a 49% interest. channel [v] thailand owns a thai language music channel. fic licenses its channel [v] brand to a third party in australia to operate a music channel. fic has a joint venture with cj e&amp;m (formerly cj media), a korean media conglomerate for the distribution of the m channel, a 24-hour general entertainment channel featuring korean content, such as original dramas, variety shows, reality and lifestyle programs. in july 2012, fic entered into a joint venture with tv bank corporation for the operation of the japanese language pay-tv sports channel, fox sports. fic owns a 60% interest in the joint venture. star india . star india develops, produces and broadcasts 44 channels in seven languages, which are distributed primarily via satellite to local cable, internet protocol television ( iptv ) and direct-to-home ( dth ) operators for distribution throughout asia, the united kingdom, continental europe, north america and parts of africa to their subscribers. star india primary sources of programming for its channels include original programming produced, commissioned or acquired by star india. star india also owns a hindi film library comprised of approximately 1,273 titles, a south indian languages film library comprised of approximately 2,572 titles, a bengali film library comprised of approximately 267 titles, a marathi film library comprised of approximately 158 titles, a hindi television program library comprised of approximately 759 titles, a south indian languages program library comprised of approximately 4,278 titles, a bengali program library comprised of approximately 144 titles, a marathi program library comprised of approximately 77 titles, an english program library comprised of approximately 262 titles and an english movie library comprised of approximately 720 titles. star india channels include the flagship hindi general entertainment channels star plus, life ok and channel v, the hindi movie channels star gold and movies ok, the english general entertainment channels star world, fx and fox crime, the english movie channels star movies and star movies action, the bengali general entertainment channel star jalsha, the bengali movie channel jalsha movies, the marathi general entertainment channel star pravah and the south indian languages general entertainment channels asianet, suvarna and vijay tv. in april 2012, star india acquired media rights to the bcci domestic and international cricket series in india for the period from 2012 to 2018. in january 2009, the company expanded into south india regional programming by acquiring a 63% controlling interest in asianet communications limited ( asianet communications ), a joint venture with jupiter capital private limited (successor in interest to asianet tv holdings private limited) and white water mass media private limited, which holds the company stake in the tamil language channel vijay (through vijay television private limited). in june 2013, the company acquired the 19% interest in vijay television private limited that it did not already own and, as a result, the company owns 87% of asianet communications. in addition to the vijay channel, asianet communications broadcasts and operates the malayalam language channels asianet and asianet plus and the kannada language channel suvarna. the company also owns an approximate 26% stake in balaji telefilms limited ( balaji ), which is one of the largest television content production companies in india, the shares of which are listed on the stock exchange, mumbai and the national stock exchange of india. balaji currently produces serials broadcast on general entertainment channels in india. the company also holds an approximate 30% interest in tata sky limited which owns and operates a dth platform in india. the company has a 50/50 joint venture, star den, with den networks limited to perform channel placement services in india. in may 2011, star den entered into a 50/50 joint venture with zee turner limited and zee entertainment enterprises limited ( zeel ) to distribute and market all channels owned by the company and zeel, their respective affiliated channels and other third party channels in india, nepal and bhutan. 6 table of contents middle east. the company has an approximate 19% interest in rotana holding fz-llc ( rotana ), which operates a diversified film, television, audio, advertising and entertainment business across the middle east and north africa. the company also has an approximate 36% interest in moby group holdings limited ( mgh ). mgh operates television, radio, production and other media businesses in afghanistan and elsewhere in central and south asia. fox sports asia . in november 2012, the company acquired the remaining 50% interest in espn star sports, now operating as fox sports asia, that it did not already own for approximately $220 million, net of cash acquired. fox sports asia is the leading sports broadcaster in asia and operates 27 channels in different languages. phoenix . the company continues to own an approximate 12% interest in phoenix satellite television holdings limited ( phoenix ), a company listed on the main board of the stock exchange of hong kong limited, after it sold an approximate 5% interest in phoenix in march 2013 through a share placement. phoenix owns and operates chinese language general entertainment, movie and current affairs channels, all of which are targeted at chinese audiences around the world and are primarily distributed on a free or an encrypted basis via pay television platforms in asia and europe and in the united states. phoenix also operates a new media business which is listed on the new york stock exchange and an outdoor advertising business. pt visi media asia. the company owns an approximate 6.7% interest in pt visi media asia tbk, a company which listed on the indonesia stock exchange in november 2011. pt visi media asia tbk owns and operates television channels and an online news portal, all of which are targeted at audiences in indonesia. competition general. cable network programming is a highly competitive business. cable networks compete for distribution and, when distribution is obtained, for viewers and advertisers with free-to-air broadcast television, radio, print media, motion picture theaters, dvds, blu-ray high definition format discs ( blu-rays ), internet, wireless and portable viewing devices and other sources of information and entertainment. important competitive factors include the prices charged for programming, the quantity, quality and variety of programming offered and the effectiveness of marketing efforts. fox news. fox news channel primary competition comes from the cable networks cnn, hln (cnn headline news), and msnbc. fox business network primary competition comes from the cable networks cnbc and bloomberg television. fox news channel and fox business network also compete for viewers and advertisers within a broad spectrum of television networks, including other non-news cable networks and free-to-air broadcast television networks. sports programming operations. a number of basic and pay television programming services, such as espn and nbc sports network, as well as free-to-air stations and broadcast networks, provide programming that also targets the fsn rsns audience. fsn is the leading programming service distributing a full range of sports programming on both a national and regional level. on a national level, fsn primary competitor is espn and, to a lesser extent, espn2, nbc sports network and cbs sports net. in regional markets, the fsn rsns compete with other regional sports networks, including those operated by team owners, cable television systems, local broadcast television stations and other sports programming providers and distributors. in addition, the fsn rsns and fsn compete, to varying degrees, for sports programming rights. the fsn rsns compete for local and regional rights with local broadcast television stations, other local and regional sports networks, including sports networks launched by team owners, and distribution outlets, such as cable television systems. fsn competes for national rights principally with a number of national cable services that specialize in or carry sports programming, including sports networks launched by the leagues and conferences, and television superstations that distribute sports. independent syndicators also compete by acquiring and 7 table of contents reselling such rights nationally, regionally and locally. distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, sometimes contract directly with the sports teams in their service area for the right to distribute a number of those teams games on their systems. in certain markets, the owners of distribution outlets, such as cable television systems, also own one or more of the professional teams in the region, increasing their ability to launch competing networks and also limiting the professional sports rights available for acquisition by fsn rsns. fx. fx faces competition from a number of basic cable and pay television programming services, such as usa, tnt, spike tv, home box office, inc. ( hbo ) and showtime networks inc. ( showtime ), as well as free-to-air broadcast networks and internet subscription and rental services that provide programming that targets the same viewing audience as fx. fx also faces competition from these programming services in the acquisition of distribution rights to movie and series programming. national geographic u.s. national geographic channel and nat geo wild face competition for viewers and advertising from a number of basic cable and broadcast television channels, such as discovery channel, history channel, animal planet, travel channel, science channel, h2, military channel, biography and tru tv, as well as free-to-air broadcast networks and sports, news and general entertainment networks which have acquired or produced competing programming. international . internationally, the company cable businesses compete with various local and foreign television services providers and distribution networks for audiences, advertising, content acquisition and distribution platforms. star india . in india, the pay television broadcasting industry has several participants, and star india entertainment channels compete with both pay and free-to-air channels since they are delivered by common cable, direct-to-home and iptv. star india also competes in india to acquire hindi and other indian languages film and programming rights, and internationally for english film and programming rights. television the company is engaged in the operation of broadcast television stations and the broadcasting of network programming in the united states. fox television stations fox television stations, inc. ( fox television stations ) owns and operates 28 full power stations, including stations located in nine of the top ten largest designated market areas ( dmas ). fox television stations owns and operates duopolies in 10 dmas, including the three largest dmas, new york, los angeles and chicago. of the 28 full power stations, 18 stations are affiliates of fox ( fox affiliates ). for a description of the programming offered to fox affiliates, see fox broadcasting company. in addition, fox television stations owns and operates 10 stations affiliated with master distribution service, inc. ( mynetworktv ). 8 table of contents the following table lists certain information about each of the television stations owned and operated by fox television stations. unless otherwise noted, all stations are fox affiliates. fox television stations dma/rank station digital channel type percentage of u.s. television households reached (1) new york, ny 1 wnyw 44 (5 ) uhf 6.5 % wwor (2) 38 (9 ) uhf los angeles, ca 2 kttv 11 (11 ) vhf 4.9 % kcop (2) 13 (13 ) vhf chicago, il 3 wfld 31 (32 ) uhf 3.1 % wpwr (2) 51 (50 ) uhf philadelphia, pa 4 wtxf 42 (29 ) uhf 2.6 % dallas, tx 5 kdfw 35 (4 ) uhf 2.3 % kdfi (2) 36 (27 ) uhf boston, ma 7 wfxt 31 (25 ) uhf 2.1 % washington, dc 8 wttg 36 (5 ) uhf 2.1 % wdca (2) 35 (20 ) uhf atlanta, ga 9 waga 27 (5 ) uhf 2.0 % houston, tx 10 kriv 26 (26 ) uhf 1.9 % ktxh (2) 19 (20 ) uhf detroit, mi 11 wjbk 7 (2 ) vhf 1.6 % phoenix, az 13 ksaz 10 (10 ) vhf 1.6 % kutp (2) 26 (45 ) uhf tampa, fl 14 wtvt 12 (13 ) vhf 1.6 % minneapolis, mn (3) 15 kmsp 9 (9 ) vhf 1.5 % wftc (2) 29 (29 ) uhf orlando, fl 19 wofl 22 (35 ) uhf 1.3 % wrbw (2) 41 (65 ) uhf charlotte, nc 25 wjzy (4) 47 (46 ) uhf 1.0 % wmyt (2) 39(55 ) uhf austin, tx 45 ktbc 7 (7 ) vhf 0.6 % memphis, tn 49 whbq 13 (13 ) vhf 0.6 % gainesville, fl 163 wogx 31 (51 ) uhf 0.1 % total 37.4 % source: nielsen media research, january 2013 (1) vhf television stations transmit on channels 2 through 13 and uhf television stations on channels 14 through 51. the federal communications commission (the fcc ) applies a discount (the uhf discount ) which attributes only 50% of the television households in a local television market to the audience reach of a uhf television station for purposes of calculating whether that station owner complies with the national station ownership cap imposed by fcc regulations and by statute; in making this calculation, only the station actual (digital) broadcast channel is considered. in addition, the coverage of two commonly owned stations in the same market is counted only once. the percentages listed are rounded and do not take into account the uhf discount. for more information regarding the fcc national station ownership cap, see government regulation television in this annual report. (2) mynetworktv affiliate. (3) the company also owns and operates full power station kftc, channel 26, bemidji, mn as a satellite station of wftc, channel 29, minneapolis, mn. station kftc is in addition to the 28 full power stations described in this section. (4) wjzy operated as an affiliate of the cw television network until june 30, 2013 at which time it was switched to fox affiliation. 9 table of contents fox broadcasting company ( fox ) fox has 205 fox affiliates, including 18 stations owned and operated by the company, which reach approximately 99% of all u.s. television households. in general, each week fox regularly delivers to its affiliates 15 hours of prime-time programming and 90 minutes of late-night programming on saturday. fox prime-time programming features such series as new girl , the following, raising hope , the simpsons , bones , the mindy project and glee and the upcoming return of the thriller 24; unscripted series such as american idol , the x factor and so you think you can dance ; and various specials. in addition, a significant component of fox programming consists of sports programming, with fox providing to its affiliates live coverage (including post-season) of the national football conference of the national football league (the nfl ) and mlb, as well as live coverage of the sprint cup series of the nascar and college football, ufc and international soccer. fox also airs a two-hour block of direct response programming on saturday mornings provided by worldlink ventures ( worldlink ), a media sales firm. fox agreement with worldlink extends through the 2014-2015 broadcast season. fox prime-time line-up is intended to appeal primarily to target audiences of 18 to 49-year old adults, the demographic group that advertisers seek to reach most often, with an emphasis on the difficult to reach 18 to 34-year old adult demographic coveted by advertisers. during the 2012-2013 traditional september to may broadcast season, fox ranked first in prime-time programming among adults ages 18 to 34 and second in prime-time programming based on viewership of adults ages 18 to 49 (based on live+7 ratings). this is the 11 th consecutive year fox has ranked first among adults ages 18 to 34 (2002-2003 to 2012-2013) and the 13 th consecutive year fox has ranked first among teens ages 12 to 17 (2000-2001 to 2012-2013). fox has ranked first among adults ages 18 to 49 eight out of the past 10 years. the median age of the fox viewer is 46 years, as compared to 49 years for nbc, 53 years for abc and 55 years for cbs. fox obtains programming from major television studios and independent television production companies pursuant to license agreements. the terms of those agreements generally provide fox with the right to broadcast a television series for a minimum of four seasons. national sports programming is obtained through license agreements with professional or collegiate sports leagues or organizations. fox current licenses with the nfl, mlb, college football conferences, nascar and ufc are secured by long-term agreements, including recent extensions of the nfl, mlb and nascar national rights. fox provides programming to the fox affiliates in accordance with affiliation agreements of varying durations, which grant to each affiliate the right to broadcast network television programming on the affiliated station. such agreements typically run three or more years and have staggered expiration dates. these affiliation agreements generally require fox affiliates to carry fox programming in all time periods in which fox programming is offered to those affiliates, subject to certain exceptions stated in the affiliation agreements. fox also distributes programming through its network-branded website and foxnow application and licenses programming for distribution through the websites and applications of cable television systems, direct broadcast satellite operators, telecommunications companies and online video distributors. mynetworktv at the beginning of the 2009-2010 television season, mynetworktv transitioned to a new programming distribution service, master distribution service, inc., distributing two hours per night of original and off- network programming from twentieth television and other third party syndicators to its affiliates. as of june 30, 2013, mynetworktv had 177 affiliates, including 10 stations owned and operated by the company, reaching approximately 96% of u.s. households. 10 table of contents competition. the network television broadcasting business is highly competitive. fox and mynetworktv compete with other broadcast networks, such as abc, nbc, cbs and the cw television network, independent television stations, cable and dbs program services, as well as other media, including dvds, blu-rays, digital video recorders ( dvr ), video games, print and the internet for audiences, programming and, in the case of fox, advertising revenues. in addition, fox and mynetworktv compete with other broadcast networks and other programming distribution services to secure affiliations or station agreements with independently owned television stations in markets across the united states. abc, nbc and cbs each broadcasts a significantly greater number of hours of programming than fox and, accordingly, may be able to designate or change time periods in which programming is to be broadcast with greater flexibility than fox. in addition, future technological developments may affect competition within the television marketplace. each of the stations owned and operated by fox television stations also competes for advertising revenues with other television stations and radio and cable systems in its respective market area and with other advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, outdoor advertising, direct mail and internet websites. all of the stations owned and operated by fox television stations are located in highly competitive markets. additional elements that are material to the competitive position of each of the television stations include management experience, authorized power and assigned frequency of that station. competition for sales of broadcast advertising time is based primarily on the anticipated and actually delivered size and demographic characteristics of audiences as determined by various rating services, price, the time of day when the advertising is to be broadcast, competition from the other broadcast networks, cable television systems, dbs services and other media and general economic conditions. competition for audiences is based primarily on the selection of programming, the acceptance of which is dependent on the reaction of the viewing public, which is often difficult to predict. filmed entertainment the company is engaged in the production and acquisition of live-action and animated motion pictures for distribution and licensing in all formats in all entertainment media worldwide, and the production and licensing of television programming worldwide. feature film production and distribution one of the world largest producers and distributors of motion pictures, twentieth century fox film ( tcff ) produces, acquires and distributes motion pictures throughout the world under a variety of arrangements. during fiscal 2013, tcff placed 21 motion pictures in general release in the united states. the motion pictures of tcff are produced and/or distributed by the following units of tcff: twentieth century fox and fox 2000, which produce and acquire motion pictures for mainstream audiences; fox searchlight pictures, which produces and acquires specialized motion pictures; and twentieth century fox animation, which produces feature length animated motion pictures. in addition, fox international productions, inc. co-produces, co-finances and acquires local-language motion pictures intended for distribution outside the united states. the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by tcff in the united states and international territories in fiscal 2013 included ice age: continental drift, taken 2, life of pi, a good day to die hard and the heat . tcff has already released or currently plans to release approximately 23 motion pictures in the united states in fiscal 2014, including the wolverine, secret life of walter mitty, maze runner, rio 2, the way way back and grand budapest hotel. pursuant to an agreement with monarchy enterprises holdings b.v. ( meh ), the parent company of new regency in which the company has a 20% interest, and certain of meh subsidiaries, tcff distributes certain new regency films and all films co-financed by tcff and new regency in all media worldwide, excluding a number of international territories with respect to television rights. among its fiscal 2014 releases, tcff currently expects to distribute three new regency films. in fiscal 2013, the company entered into an arrangement to distribute new release animated motion pictures produced by dreamworks animation skg, inc. ( dwa ), as well as certain other library motion pictures and 11 table of contents programming controlled by dwa, domestically and internationally in all media including theatrical, all home media formats and certain forms of television. among tcff's fiscal 2014 releases, tcff currently expects to distribute three dwa films. motion picture companies, such as tcff, typically seek to generate revenues from various distribution channels. tcff derives its worldwide motion picture revenues primarily from four basic sources (set forth in general chronology of exploitation): (i) distribution of motion pictures for theatrical exhibition in the united states and canada and markets outside of the united states and canada ( international markets); (ii) distribution of motion pictures in various home media formats, including digital distribution; (iii) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on premium pay, subscription video-on-demand, pay-per-view and video-on-demand programming services; and (iv) distribution of motion pictures for exhibition on free television networks, other broadcast program services, independent television stations and basic cable programming services, including certain services which are affiliates of the company. the company does not always have rights in all media of exhibition to all motion pictures that it releases, and does not necessarily distribute a given motion picture in all of the foregoing media in all markets. the company believes that the pre-release marketing of a feature film is an integral part of its motion picture distribution strategy and generally begins marketing efforts three to six months in advance of a film release date in any given territory. the company markets and distributes its films worldwide principally through its own distribution and marketing companies. through twentieth century fox home entertainment llc, the company distributes motion pictures and other programming produced by units of tcff, its affiliates and other producers in the united states, canada and international markets in all home media formats, including the sale and rental of dvds and blu-rays. in fiscal 2013, the domestic home entertainment division released or re-released approximately 1,230 produced and acquired titles, including 23 new tcff film releases, approximately 871 catalog titles and approximately 336 television and non-theatrical titles. in international markets, the company distributed, produced and acquired titles both directly and through foreign distribution channels, with approximately 934 releases in fiscal 2013, including approximately 22 new tcff film releases, approximately 663 catalog titles and approximately 249 television and non-theatrical releases. in fiscal 2013, the company entered into an arrangement to distribute new release animated motion pictures produced by dwa as well as certain other catalog motion pictures and programming controlled by dwa. in fiscal 2013, the company continued its worldwide home video distribution arrangement with metro-goldwyn-mayer ( mgm ), releasing approximately 583 mgm home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs domestically and 611 internationally. the company also continued its domestic home video distribution arrangements with lions gate (u.s. only) and anchor bay entertainment, llc ( anchor bay ) (u.s. and canada), releasing approximately 1,604 lions gate home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs and approximately 683 anchor bay home entertainment theatrical, catalog and television programs. during fiscal 2013, the domestic home entertainment division released 403 blu-ray titles, including 23 new tcff film releases, 309 catalog titles and 71 television and non-theatrical releases. in international markets, the company released 268 blu-ray titles, including 22 new tcff film releases and 246 catalog titles. the company also distributed 185 blu-ray titles from mgm domestically and 112 titles internationally, 298 blu-ray titles from lions gate domestically, and 217 blu-ray titles from anchor bay domestically. units of tcff license motion pictures and other programs in the united states and international markets to various third party and certain affiliated subscription pay television, subscription video-on-demand, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services as well as to free television networks and basic cable programming services for distribution by means of various media, which may include direct broadcast satellite ( dbs ), cable television systems and the internet. the license agreements reflecting the subscription pay television arrangements generally provide for a specified number of exhibitions of the program during a fixed term in exchange for a license fee that is based on a variety of factors, including the box office performance of each program and the number of subscribers to the service or system. among third party license arrangements 12 table of contents that units of tcff have in place in the united states for subscription pay television exhibition of motion pictures is an exclusive license agreement with hbo, providing for the licensing of films initially released for theatrical exhibition. units of tcff also license programming to subscription video-on-demand services in the united states. such licenses enable the consumer to view individual programming selected by the viewer for a subscription fee, typically on a monthly basis. the license agreements reflecting the pay-per-view and video-on-demand services generally provide for a license fee based on a percentage of the licensee gross receipts from the exhibition of the program, and in some cases, a guaranteed minimum fee. in addition, these agreements generally provide for a minimum number of scheduled pay-per-view exhibitions per program and for continuous video-on-demand availability of each program to consumers during a fixed period. units of tcff license motion pictures and other programs to third parties for distribution for electronic sell-through which enables consumers to acquire the right to retain such programs on a permanent basis. in international markets, units of tcff license motion pictures and other programming to subscription pay television, subscription video-on-demand, pay-per-view, video-on-demand and electronic sell-through services operated by leading third parties, as well as to such services operated by various affiliated entities. in addition, units of tcff license motion pictures in international markets for exhibition on free television networks, including basic cable programming services, both to independent third party broadcasters as well as to services operated by affiliated entities of the company. competition . motion picture production and distribution are highly competitive businesses. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. the number of motion pictures released by the company competitors, particularly the other major film studios, in any given period may create an oversupply of product in the market, which may reduce the company shares of gross box office admissions and may make it more difficult for the company motion pictures to succeed. the commercial success of the motion pictures produced and/or distributed by the company is affected substantially by the public unpredictable response to them. the competitive risks affecting the company home entertainment business include the number of home entertainment titles released by the company competitors that may create an oversupply of product in the market, competition among home media formats, such as dvds and blu-rays, and other methods of distribution, such as electronic sell-through and video-on-demand services. the company faces ongoing risks associated with controlling unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs. for a further discussion of issues relating to unauthorized copying and distribution of the company programs, see intellectual property. television programming, production and distribution twentieth century fox television ( tcftv ) . during fiscal 2013, tcftv produced television programs for fox, fx networks, llc ( fx ), abc television network ( abc ), cbs broadcasting, inc. ( cbs ), nbc television network ( nbc ), comedy partners ( comedy central ), showtime, netflix and independent film channel. tcftv currently produces, or has orders to produce, episodes of the following television series: 24, american dad , bob burgers , bones , dads , enlisted, family guy , gang related, glee , murder police, new girl, raising hope , the simpsons and sleepy hollow for fox; sons of anarchy and american horror story for fx; back in the game, last man standing, mind games and modern family for abc; the crazy ones, friends with better lives and how i met your mother for cbs; crisis for nbc; homeland for showtime; brickleberry for comedy central; salem for wgn america; those who kill for a&amp;e network; legends for turner network television and witches of east end for lifetime. generally, a television network or cable network will license a specified number of episodes for exhibition during the license period. all other distribution rights, including international and off-network syndication rights, are typically retained by tcftv, utilized by other units of the company or sold to third parties. television programs generally are produced under contracts that provide for license fees that may cover only a portion of the anticipated production costs. as these costs have increased in recent years, the resulting 13 table of contents deficit between production costs and license fees for domestic first-run programming also has increased. therefore, additional licensing is often critical to the financial success of a series. successful u.s. network television series are typically (i) licensed for first-run exhibition in international markets, (ii) released in dvd and blu-ray box sets, (iii) licensed for subscription video-on-demand, video-on-demand and pay-per-view services, (iv) licensed for off-network exhibition in the united states (including in syndication and to cable programmers), (v) licensed for further television exhibition in international markets and (vi) made available for electronic sell-through and streaming, including individual episodes and full series. typically, a series must be broadcast for at least three to four television seasons for there to be a sufficient number of episodes to offer the series in syndication or to cable and dbs programmers in the united states. the decision of a television network to continue a series through an entire television season or to renew a series for another television season depends largely on the series audience ratings. twentieth television. twentieth television licenses both television programming and feature films for domestic syndication to television stations and basic cable services in the united states. twentieth television distributes a program portfolio that includes the company library of television and film assets, and first-run programming produced by its production companies for sales to local stations, including stations owned and operated by the company, as well as to basic cable networks. first-run programs distributed by twentieth television include: the court shows divorce court and judge alex and the entertainment magazine program dish nation . twentieth television derives revenue from off-network, theatrical and first-run program sales in the form of cash license fees paid by both broadcast and cable licensees, and from the sales of national advertising units retained by twentieth television in its programs. twentieth television licenses such shows as modern family, it always sunny in philadelphia , burn notice, family guy , the simpsons, bones, how i met your mother, the cleveland show, and glee to cable and broadcast networks. twentieth television also sells national advertising on behalf of other third party syndicators. fox television studios ( ftvs ) . ftvs is a program supplier to the major u.s. and international broadcast and cable networks. ftvs is currently producing the series burn notice, white collar, graceland and sirens for usa network, the americans for fx, the glades for a&amp;e, the killing for amc, maron for ifc and light flight for tnt. shine limited ( shine ). shine is an international television production and distribution group with 26 production companies across 12 countries creating and exploiting scripted and non-scripted content in the global marketplace. shine companies include award-winning genre specialists such as u.k.-based kudos (drama), dragonfly (factual), princess productions (entertainment and multi-genre) and shine tv (factual and factual entertainment); u.s. producer shine america (formerly reveille); and metronome film &amp; television, the nordic region largest production group. the group also includes shine 360&deg;, a group-wide global brand and commercial rights division, and shine international, its dedicated international distribution arm. shine international distributes a catalogue of more than 3,700 hours of broadcast content to more than 200 territories worldwide as of the end of fiscal 2013. internationally distributed shows from the shine group include masterchef (now produced in 40 territories), the biggest loser , one born every minute , minute to win it and the crime drama the bridge, which was remade in fiscal 2013 in the u.s., the u.k. and france. shine has established businesses in germany, france, australia, spain and portugal and has expanded into the children genre. shine also has a digital and direct to consumer business through its social gaming producer bossa studios and its online original content producer, channelflip media. competition . similar to motion picture production and distribution, production and distribution of television programming is extremely competitive. the company competes with other film studios, independent production companies and others for the acquisition of artistic properties, the services of creative and technical personnel, exhibition outlets and the public interest in its products. in addition, television networks have affiliated production companies from which they are increasingly obtaining their programming, which has reduced the demand for programming from other non-affiliated parties. 14 table of contents motion picture and television library the company motion picture and television library (the fox library ) consists of varying rights to several thousand previously released motion pictures and many well-known television programs. motion pictures in the fox library include many successful and well-known titles, such as the sound of music , mrs. doubtfire , home alone , the star wars series, the x-men series, independence day, the day after tomorrow , the ice age series, the planet of the apes series, sideways , walk the line , the devil wears prada , little miss sunshine , the night at the museum series, the alvin and the chipmunks series, slumdog millionaire , life of pi and taken, as well as five of the top 20 domestic box office grossing films of all time, which are avatar , titanic (together with paramount pictures corporation), star wars episode iv: a new hope , star wars episode i: the phantom menace and star wars episode iii: revenge of the sith . the fox library contains varying rights to many television series and made-for-television motion pictures. the television programming in the fox library consists of such classic series as king of the hill , prison break , boston legal, my name is earl, the mary tyler moore show , m*a*s*h , hill street blues , doogie howser, m.d. , l.a. law , the wonder years , the practice , ally mcbeal , angel , dharma &amp; greg , in living color , the x-files , buffy the vampire slayer, the cleveland show, arrested development, futurama and nypd blue , as well as prior seasons of such current series as 24, the simpsons , bones , family guy , glee , modern family , how i met your mother , sons of anarchy and american dad . direct broadcast satellite television the company engages in the direct broadcast satellite business through its wholly-owned subsidiary, sky italia, and its majority-owned subsidiary, sky deutschland ag ( sky deutschland ). the company also owns a significant equity interest in bskyb, which is engaged in the dbs business (for a description of the business of bskyb, please see discussion under heading equity interests ). sky italia sky italia currently distributes more than 190 channels of basic, premium and pay-per-view programming services via satellite and broadband directly to subscribers in italy. this programming includes exclusive rights to popular sporting events, newly-released movies and sky italia original programming, such as sky tg 24 , italy first 24-hour news channel. as of june 30, 2013, sky italia had approximately 4.76 million subscribers. sky deutschland in january 2013, the company increased to 55% its ownership in sky deutschland, the leading pay television operator in germany and austria. sky deutschland currently distributes more than 70 channels of basic, premium and pay-per-view programming services via satellite and cable to subscribers in germany and austria. sky deutschland also can be received via teleclub in switzerland. sky deutschland program offering includes current feature films, new series, children channels, documentaries and live sports, such as the german bundesliga and uefa champions league. as of june 30, 2013, sky deutschland had approximately 3.45 million subscribers. competition . sky italia and sky deutschland compete with companies that offer video, audio, interactive programming, telephony, data and other information and entertainment services, including broadcasters of free-to-air television channels, broadband internet providers, digital terrestrial transmission ( dtt ) services, wireless companies and companies that are developing new media technologies. other, corporate and eliminations the other, corporate and eliminations segment consists primarily of corporate eliminations and other businesses. 15 table of contents equity interests bskyb the company holds an approximate 39% interest in bskyb. bskyb ordinary shares are listed on the london stock exchange under the symbol bsy . bskyb is the u.k. leading entertainment and communications provider, operating the most comprehensive multichannel, multi-platform pay television service in the u.k. and ireland. bskyb retails subscription television and communications services to residential and commercial premises in the uk and ireland. in addition to the retail operations, bskyb operates a number of other businesses including wholesaling its channel portfolio, selling advertising on its own and partner channels and the sky betting and gaming business. in june 2010, the company announced that it had proposed to the board of directors of bskyb to make a cash offer of 700 pence per share for the bskyb shares that the company does not already own. following the allegations regarding the news of the world, on july 13, 2011, the company announced that it no longer intended to make an offer for the bskyb shares that the company does not already own. as a result of the july 2011 announcement, the company paid bskyb a breakup fee of approximately $63 million in accordance with a cooperation agreement between the parties. yes network in december 2012, the company acquired a 49% equity interest in yes network, a rsn, for approximately $584 million and simultaneous with the closing of this transaction the company paid approximately $250 million of upfront costs on behalf of yes network. the yes network delivers exclusive live local television coverage of new york yankees baseball and brooklyn nets basketball, as well as other leading local and national sports-related programming. starting in december 2015, the remaining partners can exercise a put option that would require the company to acquire up to an additional 31% interest. if the put option is not exercised, the company has a call option beginning in december 2016 that would allow the company to acquire up to an additional 31% interest. hulu the company has an approximate 33% equity interest in hulu, llc ( hulu ) which operates an online video service that offers video content from fox, the other one-third partners in hulu, nbcuniversal and the walt disney company, as well as over 450 other third party content licensors. hulu premium programming is available free of charge to viewers at hulu.com and over 60 destination sites online, including aol, imdb, msn, myspace and yahoo!. additional premium programming is available on a monthly subscription basis at hulu.com and through software applications on internet-connected devices, including smart phones, tablets, gaming consoles and set-top boxes. in july 2013, the company, nbcuniversal and the walt disney company announced that they will maintain their respective ownership positions in hulu and together provide a cash infusion of $750 million. as result, the company invested an additional $125 million in hulu and has committed to invest an additional $125 million in hulu. cmc-news asia the company holds an approximate 47% interest in cmc-news asia, a joint venture with china media capital, a media investment fund in china. cmc-news asia develops general entertainment programming for broadcast on local chinese channels. cmc-news asia also broadcasts the chinese language xing kong and channel [v] china channels primarily in china on a free-to-air basis to local cable operators in southern china and three-star and above hotels and other approved organizations and institutions, and sells television, new media, home video and other rights to its extensive contemporary chinese film library comprised of over 750 titles. bona film group in fiscal 2012, the company acquired a 17% interest in bona film group, a film distributor in china listed on nasdaq, for approximately $70 million in cash. 16 table of contents other investments in fiscal 2013, the company invested $70 million for a minority equity interest in vice holding inc., a digital media company. government regulation general various aspects of the company activities are subject to regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world. the company believes that it is in material compliance with the requirements imposed by those laws and regulations described herein. the introduction of new laws and regulations in countries where the company products and services are produced or distributed (and changes in the enforcement of existing laws and regulations in those countries) could have a negative impact on the interests of the company. cable network programming and direct broadcast satellite television asia. the company broadcasts television programming over a footprint covering approximately 53 asian countries. most countries in which the company operates have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. government regulation of direct reception and redistribution via cable or other means of satellite television signals, where it is addressed at all, is treated differently in each country. at one extreme are absolute bans on private ownership of satellite receiving equipment. some countries, however, have adopted a less restrictive approach, opting to allow ownership of satellite receiving equipment by certain institutions and individuals but allowing them to receive only authorized broadcasts. at the opposite end of the spectrum are countries where private satellite dish ownership is allowed and laws and regulations have been adopted which support popular access to satellite services through local cable redistribution. most television services within asia, whether free-to-air or pay television, are also subject to licensing requirements. in addition, most countries in which the company operates control the content offered by local broadcast operators through censorship requirements to which program suppliers, such as the company, are subject. certain countries also require a minimum percentage of local content. other countries require local broadcast operators to obtain government approval to retransmit foreign programming. additional categories of regulation of actual or potential significance to the company are restrictions on foreign investment in distribution platforms, television programming production, limitations on exclusive arrangements for channel distribution and non-discrimination requirements for supply or carriage of programming and anti-competition or anti-trust legislation. such restrictions are different in each country. india. in india, private satellite dish ownership, including dth, is allowed. television viewers receive broadcast television signals primarily through terrestrial and cable delivery and, in more recent years, through dth and iptv delivery. terrestrial broadcasting remains the domain of government-owned broadcast stations. all cable television operators are required to carry certain government-operated channels. retransmissions of foreign satellite channels, such as star india channels, are permitted, subject to licensing requirements and compliance with local applicable laws, including programming and advertisement codes. the indian government requires that all film and media content, whether produced in india or abroad, be certified by the central board of film certification prior to exhibition in india and also places certain restrictions on advertising content. the indian broadcasting foundation has issued self regulatory guidelines that apply to the programming on non-news and current affairs channels. limits are imposed by the indian government on the increase in the year-on-year prices payable by cable operators to broadcasters for all pay and free-to-air channels, including the company channels. further, in certain areas pay channels are required to be provided through conditional access systems where 17 table of contents cable operators are required to provide such channels at a capped retail price, of which the broadcasters share is restricted to 45%. the wholesale and retail pricing tariffs are presently under review after intervention by the indian courts. while there is no tariff regulation for dth at the retail level, broadcasters are required to offer their channels to dth platforms at 42% of the rates charged to analog cable operators pursuant to an interim order by the supreme court of india. broadcasters are also required to provide their channels on non-discriminatory terms to all distributors if no carriage charges are being sought from broadcasters. in october 2011, an ordinance was issued in india mandating that cable networks switch from analog to digital systems. when enacted, the ordinance amended the cable television act and new rules were issued. the telecom regulatory authority of india ( trai ) issued rules that mandated that, among other things, basic service tiers comprised of free-to-air channels be compulsorily offered to consumers. when implemented, this new regime will replace the dispensation described above which capped in certain areas of india the retail prices and restricted broadcasters share to 45%. the first and second phases of this new regime have been implemented and replaced the dispensation regime in kolkata, chennai, mumbai, delhi and 38 cities. the final two phases for the rest of india are expected to be implemented by the end of calendar year 2014. trai has also enacted regulations in may 2012 which would limit the amount of advertising time allowed on television channels. such regulations have been challenged and the application of such regulations has been stayed by the indian courts. trai has since issued new regulations in their place for limiting the amount of advertising time allowed on television channels which are proposed to take effect beginning october 1, 2013. the copyright laws in india were amended in june 2012 to provide, inter alia, for rights to receive royalties for authors of underlying work and to permit broadcasters to access content under a statutory license at royalty rates to be determined by the copyright board. in september 2012, the government in india eased its limits on foreign investments in broadcasting carriage services including cable, teleport and dth, which were each capped at 49% with a sublimit of 20% applying to direct investments in dth. under the new regime, foreign investments up to 49% may be made without government approval and foreign investments above 49% and up to 74% may be made with government approval. latin america. the company broadcasts television programming throughout approximately 18 latin american countries, as well as the caribbean. certain countries in which the company operates have a regulatory framework for the satellite and cable television industry. these regulations vary in each country as does their impact on the company business. in argentina, the government has required pay tv operators to carry certain government operated channels, imposed restrictions on the ability to effectuate price increases on rates charged to pay tv operators, reduced by half the available advertising inventory on the channels and enforced regulations affecting the withholding tax on advertisers purchasing advertising inventory on international channels. the company is working to minimize the impact of the reduction of advertising inventory and tax implications on advertisers. in addition, the government in argentina has implemented certain measures in currency exchange controls which have caused significant impediments and limitations to any person or entity moving money out of the country resulting in exposure to currency devaluation. in mexico, international programmers were granted a temporary injunction which allows them the right to transmit up to an average of 12 minutes per hour of advertising within a 24 hour period. this was previously limited by the regulatory agency to a strict six minutes per hour. in brazil, a media law requires, among other things: (i) that, beginning september 2013, all channels distributed in the region contain at least three hours and thirty minutes per week, an increase from the previous requirement of two hours and twenty minutes per week, of brazilian content during prime time hours, half of which must be produced by a brazilian independent producer; (ii) registration of all channels, programmers, local content and advertisements; (iii) website disclosure of programming and advertising content to ensure compliance with tax and other regulations; and (iv) mediation of local agency 18 table of contents requirements and taxation on all advertising that is contracted abroad. while such tax shall primarily be paid by advertisers, programmers are ultimately responsible for the tax payment, and failure by advertisers to pay the required tax could subject programmers to fines or penalties. compliance with the media law increases the cost of doing business in the form of production/acquisition costs as well as third party administrative and legal expenses. europe. the sectors in which the company operates in europe are subject to both general competition laws and sector specific regulation. the regulatory regime applicable to the electronic communications and broadcasting sectors is, to a large extent, based on european union ( eu ) law comprised in various eu directives that require eu member states to adopt national legislation to give effect to the directives objectives, while leaving the precise manner and form of the national legislation to the discretion of each member state. the electronic communications directives regulate the provision of communication services, including networks and transmission services that are involved in the broadcasting of television services as well as the provisions of services and facilities associated with the operation of digital television platforms. the audiovisual media services directive sets out the basic principles for the regulation of television broadcasting activity, including broadcasting licensing, advertising and content regulation and imposes production and investment quotas, obligations to transmit european content for at least 50% of the day and limitations on advertising time. each european country also has the right to adopt more strict rules. television in general, the television broadcast industry in the united states is highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc regulates television broadcasting, and certain aspects of the operations of cable, satellite and other electronic media that compete with broadcasting, pursuant to the communications act of 1934, as amended (the communications act ). the communications act permits the operation of television broadcast stations only in accordance with a license issued by the fcc upon a finding that the grant of the license would serve the public interest, convenience and necessity. the fcc grants television broadcast station licenses for specific periods of time and, upon application, may renew the licenses for additional terms. under the communications act, television broadcast licenses may be granted for a maximum permitted term of eight years. generally, the fcc renews broadcast licenses upon finding that: (i) the television station has served the public interest, convenience and necessity; (ii) there have been no serious violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations; and (iii) there have been no other violations by the licensee of the communications act or fcc rules and regulations which, taken together, indicate a pattern of abuse. after considering these factors, the fcc may grant the license renewal application with or without conditions, including renewal for a lesser term than the maximum otherwise permitted, or hold an evidentiary hearing. fox television stations has pending renewal applications for a number of its television station licenses. seven of the pending applications have been opposed by third parties. on june 13, 2007 and may 15, 2008, fox television stations entered into agreements with the fcc that preclude it from objecting, on the grounds that such action is barred by certain statutes of limitations, to fcc or other governmental action relating to (i) petitions to deny or complaints that have been filed against several owned and operated stations relating to programming that is alleged to violate the prohibition against indecent broadcasts or (ii) inquiries from the fcc regarding compliance with its sponsorship identification rules. for information on the television stations owned and operated by the company, see fox television stations above. in march 2010, the fcc delivered its national broadband plan to congress, which reviews the nation broadband internet infrastructure and recommends a number of initiatives to spur broadband deployment and use. in order to free up more spectrum for wireless broadband services, the broadband plan proposes to make spectrum available, including 120 megahertz of broadcast spectrum, by incentivizing current private-sector spectrum holders to return some of their spectrum to the government by 2015 through such initiatives as voluntary incentive spectrum auctions (with current licensees permitted to share in the auction proceeds) and 19 table of contents repacking of channel assignments to increase efficient spectrum usage. if voluntary measures fail to yield the amount of spectrum the fcc deems necessary for wireless broadband deployment, the broadband plan proposes various mandates to reclaim spectrum, such as forced channel sharing. in response to the broadband plan, congress passed legislation in february 2012 authorizing the fcc to conduct voluntary auctions of television broadcast station spectrum. stations that continue their operations may have to change channels once the fcc repacks broadcast spectrum. the legislation requires the fcc to assist stations in retaining their current coverage areas, provides that no stations will be forced into the vhf band and establishes a fund to reimburse broadcasters for reasonable channel relocation expenses. the broadcast industry is exploring additional uses for currently allocated spectrum. in april 2010, fox television stations and eleven other major broadcast station group owners formed mobile content venture ( mcv ), a joint venture to develop a new national mobile content service utilizing the stations digital broadcast spectrum. mcv launched dyle tm mobile television service in 35 markets at the end of 2012. it is expected that fcc auctions and repacking will involve multiple rulemaking proceedings and may take several years to complete. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of implementation of the broadband plan, fcc spectrum auctions and repacking, or their effect on the company. on february 4, 2008, the fcc issued an order that concluded the quadrennial review of its broadcast ownership regulations required by the 1996 telecom act (the february 2008 order ). the fcc decided there should be no changes to its multiple ownership rules relating to the ownership of more than one television station in the same market. those rules (i) permit the ownership of two television stations with overlapping coverage areas if the stations are in separate dmas; and (ii) permit the ownership of two stations in the same dma if their coverage areas do not overlap or if eight independently owned full power television stations will remain in the dma after the stations that had been independently owned become commonly owned, and one of the merged stations is not among the top four-ranked stations in the market, based on audience share. the fcc modified its rule prohibiting common ownership of a broadcast station and a newspaper in the same market to allow such combinations in certain situations. the february 2008 order was appealed by several parties, including the company. on july 7, 2011, the united states court of appeals for the third circuit affirmed the fcc decision to retain its multiple ownership rules and vacated and remanded the revision to the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule on the grounds the fcc failed to comply with procedural notice and comment requirements. on december 22, 2011, the fcc commenced the next quadrennial review, in which it proposed minor modifications to its ownership regulations. the proposed modifications are not likely to affect the impact of the fcc ownership rules on the company ownership of media properties. the company has filed comments in the current proceeding, which is pending. fox television stations is in compliance with the rules governing ownership of multiple stations in the same market and with the national station ownership cap established by congress. fox television stations owns two television stations in the new york dma. by virtue of its common ownership with news corp due to the murdoch family trust ownership interest in both news corp and the company, fox television stations also retains an attributable interest in the new york post, a daily newspaper in the new york dma. on october 6, 2006, the fcc reaffirmed the company permanent waiver of the newspaper/broadcast cross-ownership rule, which allows the common ownership of the post and wnyw(tv), and granted a two-year temporary waiver of the rule to continue to allow the common ownership of the post and wwor-tv (the october 2006 order ). the company has asked the fcc to extend the permanent waiver to wwor-tv. the temporary waiver remains in effect pursuant to fcc precedent pending fcc action on this request. parties opposed to the october 2006 order filed a petition for reconsideration with the fcc, which was denied on may 22, 2009. other opponents of the october 2006 order have asked the fcc to reconsider its may 22, 2009 decision and have filed an opposition to the company request for a permanent waiver. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the fcc action on this request for reconsideration or its effect on the company. in addition, as a result of these rules, the company future conduct, including the acquisition of any broadcast networks, or stations or any newspapers, in the same local markets in which news corp owns or operates newspapers or has acquired television stations, may affect news corp ability to own and operate its 20 table of contents newspapers or any television stations it acquires or otherwise comply with the rules. therefore, the company and news corp agreed in the separation and distribution agreement that if the company acquires, after the separation, newspapers, radio or television broadcast stations or television broadcast networks in the u.s. and such acquisition would impede or be reasonably likely to impede news corp business, then the company will be required to take certain actions, including divesting assets, in order to permit news corp to hold its media interests and to comply with such rules. under the communications act, no broadcast station licensees may be owned by a corporation if more than 25% of the corporation stock is owned or voted by non-u.s. persons, their representatives, or by any other corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country. the company owns broadcast station licensees in connection with its ownership and operation of u.s. television stations. on april 18, 2012, the company announced that it had suspended 50% of the voting rights of the class b common stock held by non-u.s. stockholders in order to maintain compliance with u.s. law. as of april 2013, the suspension of voting rights of shares of class b common stock held by non-u.s. stockholders was 40%. this suspension will remain in place for as long as the company deems it necessary to maintain compliance with the act. the fcc could review the company compliance with the act in connection with its consideration of fox television stations license renewal applications. fcc regulations implementing the cable television consumer protection and competition act of 1992 require each television broadcaster to elect, at three-year intervals, either to (i) require carriage of its signal by cable systems in the station market ( must carry ) or (ii) negotiate the terms on which that broadcast station would permit transmission of its signal by the cable systems within its market ( retransmission consent ). generally, the company has elected retransmission consent for the stations owned and operated by fox television stations. the satellite home viewer improvement act of 1999 requires satellite carriers to carry upon request all television stations located in markets in which the satellite carrier retransmits at least one local station pursuant to the copyright license provided in the statute ( carry one, carry all ). fcc regulations implementing this statutory provision require affected stations to elect either mandatory carriage at the same three year intervals applicable to cable must carry or negotiate carriage terms with the satellite operators. several cable and satellite operators filed a petition for rulemaking with the fcc seeking changes in the retransmission consent regulations, including the imposition of mandatory arbitration and required interim carriage in the event the broadcaster and distributor fail to reach a carriage agreement. in march 2011, the fcc responded by initiating a rulemaking to explore changes to its retransmission consent regulations. the fcc tentatively concluded that it does not have the power to order mandatory arbitration or interim carriage and instead sought comment on modifications to its rules affecting retransmission consent negotiations, including providing more guidance under the fcc good faith negotiation standard, improving notice to consumers in advance of possible disruptions of tv station carriage and eliminating program exclusivity rules that restrict cable and satellite operators ability to negotiate for alternative access to network programming. among other things, the fcc sought comment on whether it should be a per se violation of good faith negotiation requirements for a station to agree to give its network the right to approve retransmission consent agreements or to comply with such an approval requirement in the network affiliation agreement. the broadcast industry, including fox entertainment group and fox television stations, has filed comments opposing changes to the current retransmission consent regime. it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of the rulemaking or its effect on the company. legislation enacted in 1990 limits the amount of commercial matter that may be broadcast during programming designed for children 12 years of age and younger. in addition, under fcc license renewal processing guidelines, television stations are generally required to broadcast a minimum of three hours per week of programming, which, among other requirements, must serve, as a significant purpose, the educational and informational needs of children 16 years of age and under. a television station found not to have complied with the programming requirements or commercial limitations could face sanctions, including monetary fines and the possible non-renewal of its license. fcc rules prohibit the broadcast by television and radio stations of indecent or profane material between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. beginning in march 2004, the fcc implemented a new policy regarding this 21 table of contents prohibition and generally stepped up its enforcement of indecency violations. under the new policy, the single use of certain forbidden expletives, or variations of those expletives, were deemed indecent and profane. the fcc also warned broadcasters that serious multiple violations of the indecency prohibition could lead to license revocation proceedings, and that fines could be imposed for each incident in a single broadcast. under the new fcc policy, both complaints about indecency and fcc enforcement actions have increased, and several complaints alleging the broadcast of alleged indecent or profane material by fox television stations are pending at the fcc. as of june 2006, the law authorizes the fcc to impose fines of up to $325,000 per incident for violation of the prohibition against indecent and profane broadcasts. on march 15, 2006, the fcc determined that the 2002 and 2003 billboard music awards programs, both live broadcasts on fox, violated the prohibitions against indecent and profane broadcasts because they contained isolated uses of the forbidden expletives (the march 15 order ). however, since these broadcasts preceded the fcc march 2004 policy, no forfeiture or other penalty was imposed. nonetheless, in april 2006, fox television stations appealed the march 15 order to the second circuit court of appeals (the second circuit ). on june 4, 2007, the second circuit granted fox appeal, vacating the march 15 order as well as the fcc new policy on fleeting expletives in its entirety on the grounds that both were arbitrary and capricious. the united states obtained review by the u.s. supreme court, which reversed the second circuit decision and remanded the case back to the second circuit for consideration of the constitutional issues that had been raised before but not yet decided by that court. on june 13, 2010, the second circuit vacated the march 15 order and the fcc indecency policy underlying it on the grounds that the policy is unconstitutionally vague and violates the first amendment. on june 21, 2012, the supreme court decided that the fcc failed to give fox fair notice that the isolated use of expletives could violate the indecency prohibition and therefore the commission standards as applied to the broadcasts in question were unconstitutionally vague. the court vacated the violations for the billboard music awards broadcasts and reversed the second circuit decision on the constitutionality of the fcc underlying indecency policy. on april 1, 2013, the fcc announced it had reduced the backlog of pending indecency complaints and would focus its enforcement on egregious cases. the fcc also sought public comment on whether its indecency policies should be altered in light of the supreme court decision. it is not possible to predict the outcome of the fcc inquiry or how it will enforce its indecency rules in the future. on february 22, 2008, the fcc issued an order imposing forfeitures of $7,000 each on 13 fox affiliates, including five stations owned and operated by the company, on the grounds that an april 7, 2003 episode of the program married by america violated the prohibition against indecent broadcasts. on april 4, 2008, the united states commenced an action in federal district court in the district of columbia against the five company-owned stations to collect the forfeitures imposed by the fcc. in 2012, the government voluntarily dismissed this collection action. the company subsequently petitioned the fcc to vacate the forfeitures against the company and other fox stations that had been found to have violated the indecency prohibition. the petition remains pending and it is not possible to predict the timing or outcome of fcc action. modifications to the company programming to reduce the risk of indecency violations could have an adverse effect on the competitive position of fox television stations and fox. if indecency regulation is extended to cable and satellite programming, and such extension was found to be constitutional, some of the company cable programming services could be subject to additional regulation that might affect subscription and viewership levels. the fcc continues to enforce strictly its regulations concerning political advertising, children television, environmental concerns, equal employment opportunity, technical operating matters and antenna tower maintenance. fcc rules require the closed captioning of almost all broadcast and cable programming. a federal law enacted in late 2010 requires affiliates of the four largest broadcast networks in the 25 largest markets to carry 50 hours of prime time or children programming per calendar quarter with video descriptions, i.e., a verbal description of key visual elements inserted into natural pauses in the audio and broadcast over a separate audio channel. cable and satellite operators with 50,000 or more subscribers must do the same on each of the top 22 table of contents five non-broadcast networks they carry. compliance has been required since july 1, 2012 and applies to fox affiliates in the top 25 markets. fox news channel, which is among the top five non-broadcast networks, falls within the statutory exemption for live or near-live programming. the same statute requires programming that was captioned on television to retain captions when distributed via internet protocol apps or services. although not required by fcc regulation, the company has committed to provide program ratings information for its broadcast network programming for use in conjunction with v chip technology, which blocks the display of television programming based on its rating. the company has also agreed to make this ratings information available for all full-length entertainment programs that stream on websites the company controls. fcc regulations governing network affiliation agreements mandate that television broadcast station licensees retain the right to reject or refuse network programming in certain circumstances or to substitute programming that the licensee reasonably believes to be of greater local or national importance. violation of fcc regulations can result in substantial monetary forfeitures, periodic reporting conditions, short-term license renewals and, in egregious cases, denial of license renewal or revocation of license. filmed entertainment united states. tcff is subject to the provisions of so-called trade practice laws in effect in 25 states relating to theatrical distribution of motion pictures. these laws substantially restrict the licensing of motion pictures unless theater owners are first invited to attend a screening of the motion pictures and, in certain instances, also prohibit payment of advances and guarantees to motion picture distributors by exhibitors. further, pursuant to various consent judgments, tcff and certain other motion picture companies are subject to certain restrictions on their trade practices in the united states, including a requirement to offer motion pictures for exhibition to theaters on a theater-by-theater basis and, in some cases, a prohibition against the ownership of theaters. other international regulation. in countries outside of the united states, there are a variety of existing or contemplated governmental laws and regulations that may affect the ability of tcff to distribute and/or license its motion picture and television products to cinema, television or in-home media, including copyright laws and regulations that may or may not be adequate to protect its interests, cinema screen quotas, television quotas, contract term limitations, discriminatory taxes and other discriminatory treatment of u.s. products. the ability of countries to deny market access or refuse national treatment to products originating outside their territories is regulated under various international agreements, including the world trade organization general agreement on tariffs and trade and general agreement on trade and services; however, these agreements have limited application with respect to preventing the denial of market access to audio-visual products originating outside the european union. internet the children online privacy protection act of 1998 ( coppa ) prohibits websites from collecting personally identifiable information online from children under age 13 without prior parental consent. the controlling the assault of non-solicited pornography and marketing act of 2003 ( can-spam ) regulates the distribution of unsolicited commercial emails, or spam. online services provided by the company may be subject to coppa and can-spam requirements. federal regulators interest in issues of privacy, cybersecurity and data security has been steadily increasing. on february 23, 2012, the administration issued a white paper on consumer data privacy that includes a consumer privacy bill of rights. the administration is convening multi-stakeholder processes to implement the bill of rights through industry codes of conduct that would be enforceable by the federal trade commission ( ftc ) and state attorneys general. the administration also announced it would work with congress to implement these rights through legislation. on march 26, 2012, the ftc released a report on consumer privacy, which sets forth a detailed privacy framework and urges industry to accelerate the pace of adoption of self-regulatory measures, including more widespread adoption of a do-not-track browser mechanism. the report 23 table of contents also recommends that congress consider baseline privacy legislation incorporating the principles articulated in the framework. a number of privacy and data security bills have been introduced in both houses of congress that address the collection, maintenance and use of personal information, web browsing and geolocation data, data security and breach notification requirements, and cybersecurity. several congressional hearings have examined privacy implications for online, offline and mobile data. some state legislatures have already adopted legislation that regulates how businesses operate on the internet, including measures relating to privacy, data security and data breaches. the industry released a set of self-regulatory online behavioral advertising principles in 2009, which have been implemented by web publishers, online advertisers and online advertising networks. in november 2011, these principles were extended to the use of online consumer data for purposes other than advertising. it is unclear whether these and other industry self-regulatory efforts alone will address the concerns expressed by some federal and state officials about the collection of anonymous data online or via mobile applications to serve targeted content and advertising. it is not possible to predict whether proposed privacy and data security legislation will be enacted or to determine what effect such legislation might have on the company business. foreign governments are raising similar privacy and data security concerns. in particular, the eu has proposed a new privacy regulation (the eu regulation ) that would replace the current data protection directive, would tighten regulation of the collection, use and security of online data and would continue to restrict the trans-border flow of data. european industry has implemented a self-regulatory regime for online behavioral advertising that is largely consistent with the u.s. self-regulatory framework. the proposed eu regulation will not be effective for at least two or three years and may undergo many changes before it is adopted. it is unclear how the final eu regulation would affect the company business. the company monitors pending legislation and regulatory initiatives to ascertain relevance, analyze impact and develop strategic direction surrounding regulatory trends and developments. intellectual property the company intellectual property assets include: copyrights in motion pictures, television programming, books, publications, websites and technologies; trademarks in names, logos and characters; domain names; patents or patent applications for inventions related to its products, business methods and/or services; and licenses of intellectual property rights of various kinds. the company derives value from these assets through the theatrical release of films and the production, distribution and/or licensing of its films and television programming to domestic and international television and cable networks, pay television services, pay-per-view, video-on-demand services and dth satellite services, operation of websites, and through the sale of products, such as dvds, blu-rays, books and publications, among others. the company devotes significant resources to protecting its intellectual property in the united states and other key foreign territories. to protect these assets, the company relies upon a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition, patent, trade secret and other laws and contract provisions. however, there can be no assurance of the degree to which these measures will be successful in any given case. policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties of the company intellectual property. the company seeks to limit that threat through a combination of approaches, including offering legitimate market alternatives, deploying digital rights management technologies, pursuing legal sanctions for infringement, promoting appropriate legislative initiatives and international treaties and enhancing public awareness of the meaning and value of intellectual property and intellectual property laws. piracy, including in the digital environment, continues to present a threat to revenues from products and services based on intellectual property. third parties may challenge the validity or scope of the company intellectual property from time to time, and such challenges could result in the limitation or loss of intellectual property rights. irrespective of their 24 table of contents validity, such claims may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources that could have an adverse effect on the company operations. moreover, effective intellectual property protection may be either unavailable or limited in certain foreign territories. therefore, the company engages in efforts to strengthen and update intellectual property protection around the world, including efforts to ensure the effective enforcement of intellectual property laws and remedies for infringement. item 1a. risk factors prospective investors should consider carefully the risk factors set forth below before making an investment in the company securities. a decline in advertising expenditures could cause the company revenues and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company derives substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on or in its television stations, broadcast and cable networks and direct broadcast satellite services. expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions, as well as budgeting and buying patterns. a decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy in general could alter current or prospective advertisers spending priorities. demand for the company products is also a factor in determining advertising rates. for example, ratings points for the company television stations and broadcast and cable networks are factors that are weighed when determining advertising rates, and with respect to the company television stations and broadcast and television networks, when determining the affiliate rates received by the company. in addition, newer technologies, including new video formats, streaming and downloading capabilities via the internet, video-on-demand, personal video recorders and other devices and technologies are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences. some of these devices and technologies allow users to view television or motion pictures from a remote location or on a time-delayed basis and provide users the ability to fast-forward, rewind, pause and skip programming and advertisements. these technological developments which are increasing the number of media and entertainment choices available to audiences could negatively impact not only consumer demand for our content and services but also could affect the attractiveness of the company offerings to viewers, advertisers and/or distributors. failure to effectively anticipate or adapt to emerging technologies or changes in consumer behavior could have an adverse effect on our business. further, a decrease in advertising expenditures or reduced demand for the company offerings can lead to a reduction in pricing and advertising spending, which could have an adverse effect on the company businesses and assets. global economic conditions may have a continuing adverse effect on the company business. the united states and global economies have undergone a period of economic uncertainty, which caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, limited access to the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending and lower consumer net worth. the resulting pressure on the labor and retail markets and the downturn in consumer confidence weakened the economic climate in certain markets in which the company does business and has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the company business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. a continued decline in these economic conditions could further impact the company business, reduce the company advertising and other revenues and negatively impact the performance of its motion pictures and home entertainment releases, television operations and other consumer products. in addition, these conditions could also impair the ability of those with whom the company does business to satisfy their obligations to the company. as a result, the company results of operations may be adversely affected. although the company believes that its operating cash flow and current access to capital and credit markets, including the company existing credit facility, will give it the ability to meet its financial needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that continued or increased volatility and disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair the company liquidity or increase its cost of borrowing. 25 table of contents acceptance of the company film and television programming by the public is difficult to predict, which could lead to fluctuations in revenues. feature film and television production and distribution are speculative businesses since the revenues derived from the production and distribution of a feature film or television series depend primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. the commercial success of a feature film or television series also depends upon the quality and acceptance of other competing films and television series released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of a growing number of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and their effects on consumer spending and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. further, the theatrical success of a feature film and the audience ratings for a television series are generally key factors in generating revenues from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment and premium pay television, with respect to feature films, and syndication, with respect to television series. the company could suffer losses due to asset impairment charges for goodwill, intangible assets and programming. in accordance with applicable generally accepted accounting principles, the company performs an annual impairment assessment of its recorded goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, including fcc licenses, during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. the company also continually evaluates whether current factors or indicators, such as the prevailing conditions in the capital markets, require the performance of an interim impairment assessment of those assets, as well as other investments and other long-lived assets. any significant shortfall, now or in the future, in advertising revenue and/or the expected popularity of the programming for which the company has acquired rights could lead to a downward revision in the fair value of certain reporting units, particularly those in the television and cable network programming segments. a downward revision in the fair value of a reporting unit, indefinite-lived intangible assets, investments or long-lived assets could result in an impairment and a non-cash charge would be required. any such charge could be material to the company reported net earnings. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could have an adverse effect on the company results of operations. the company has significant operations in a number of foreign jurisdictions and certain of the company operations are conducted in foreign currencies. the value of these currencies fluctuates relative to the u.s. dollar. as a result, the company is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations, which could have an adverse effect on its results of operations in a given period or in specific markets. the loss of carriage agreements could cause the company revenue and operating results to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the company broadcast stations and cable networks maintain affiliation and carriage arrangements that enable them to reach a large percentage of cable and direct broadcast satellite households across the united states. the loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on basic programming tiers could reduce the distribution of the company broadcast stations and cable networks, which may adversely affect those networks revenues from subscriber fees and their ability to sell national and local advertising time. the company is dependent upon the maintenance of affiliation agreements with third party owned television stations and there can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms acceptable to the company. the loss of a significant number of these affiliation arrangements could reduce the distribution of fox and mynetworktv and adversely affect the company ability to sell national advertising time. 26 table of contents the inability to renew sports programming rights could cause the company advertising revenue to decline significantly in any given period or in specific markets. the sports rights contracts between the company, on the one hand, and various professional sports leagues and teams, on the other, have varying duration and renewal terms. as these contracts expire, renewals on favorable terms may be sought; however, third parties may outbid the current rights holders for the rights contracts. in addition, professional sports leagues or teams may create their own networks or the renewal costs could substantially exceed the original contract cost. the loss of rights could impact the extent of the sports coverage offered by the company and its affiliates, as it relates to fox, and could adversely affect the company advertising and affiliate revenues. upon renewal, the company results could be adversely affected if escalations in sports programming rights costs are unmatched by increases in advertising rates and, in the case of cable networks, subscriber fees. the company relies on network and information systems and other technology that may be subject to disruption or misuse, which could result in improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information as well as increased costs or loss of revenue. network and information systems and other technologies, including those related to our network management, are important to our business activities. network and information systems-related events, such as computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any combination of the foregoing, could result in a disruption of our services or improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information. improper disclosure of such information could harm our reputation, require us to expend resources to remedy such a security breach or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. technological developments may increase the threat of content piracy and signal theft and limit the company ability to protect its intellectual property rights. content piracy and signal theft present a threat to the company revenues from products and services, including, but not limited to, films, television shows, cable and other programming. the company seeks to limit the threat of content piracy and direct broadcast satellite programming signal theft; however, policing unauthorized use of the company products and services and related intellectual property is often difficult and the steps taken by the company may not in every case prevent the infringement by unauthorized third parties. developments in technology, including digital copying, file compressing and the growing penetration of high-bandwidth internet connections, increase the threat of content piracy by making it easier to duplicate and widely distribute high-quality pirated material. in addition, developments in software or devices that circumvent encryption technology and the falling prices of devices incorporating such technologies increase the threat of unauthorized use and distribution of direct broadcast satellite programming signals and the proliferation of user-generated content sites and live and stored video streaming sites, which deliver unauthorized copies of copyrighted content, including those emanating from other countries in various languages, may adversely impact the company businesses. the proliferation of unauthorized distribution and use of the company content could have an adverse effect on the company businesses and profitability because it reduces the revenue that the company could potentially receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of its products and services. the company has taken, and will continue to take, a variety of actions to combat piracy and signal theft, both individually and, in some instances, together with industry associations. however, protection of the company intellectual property rights is dependent on the scope and duration of the company rights as defined by applicable laws in the united states and abroad and the manner in which those laws are construed. if those laws are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of the company rights, or if existing laws are changed, the company ability to generate revenue from intellectual property may decrease, or 27 table of contents the cost of obtaining and enforcing our rights may increase. there can be no assurance that the company efforts to enforce its rights and protect its products, services and intellectual property will be successful in preventing content piracy or signal theft. further, while piracy and technology tools continue to escalate, if any u.s. or international laws intended to combat piracy and protect intellectual property are repealed or weakened or not adequately enforced, or if the legal system fails to evolve and adapt to new technologies that facilitate piracy, we may be unable to effectively protect our rights and the value of our intellectual property may be negatively impacted and our costs of enforcing our rights could increase. the company must respond to changes in consumer behavior as a result of new technologies in order to remain competitive. technology, particularly digital technology used in the entertainment industry, continues to evolve rapidly, leading to alternative methods for the delivery and storage of digital content. these technological advancements have driven changes in consumer behavior and have empowered consumers to seek more control over when, where and how they consume digital content. content owners are increasingly delivering their content directly to consumers over the internet, often without charge, and innovations in distribution platforms have enabled consumers to view such internet-delivered content on televisions and portable devices. there is a risk that the company responses to these changes and strategies to remain competitive, including distribution of its content on a pay basis, may not be adopted by consumers. in addition, enhanced internet capabilities and other new media may reduce television viewership, the demand for dvds and blu-rays and the desire to see motion pictures in theaters, which could negatively affect the company revenues. the company failure to protect and exploit the value of its content, while responding to and developing new technology and business models to take advantage of advancements in technology and the latest consumer preferences, could have a significant adverse effect on the company businesses, asset values and results of operations. labor disputes may have an adverse effect on the company business. in a variety of the company businesses, the company and its partners engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements, including employees of the company film and television studio operations. if the company or its partners are unable to renew expiring collective bargaining agreements, it is possible that the affected unions could take action in the form of strikes or work stoppages. such actions, as well as higher costs in connection with these collective bargaining agreements or a significant labor dispute, could have an adverse effect on the company business by causing delays in production or by reducing profit margins. changes in u.s. or foreign regulations may have an adverse effect on the company business. the company is subject to a variety of u.s. and foreign regulations in the jurisdictions in which its businesses operate. in general, the television broadcasting and multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the united states are highly regulated by federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the fcc. the fcc generally regulates, among other things, the ownership of media, broadcast and multichannel video programming and technical operations of broadcast licensees. our program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as content regulation, user privacy and data protection, and consumer protection, among others. further, the united states congress, the fcc and state legislatures currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters, including technological changes and measures relating to privacy and data security, which could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of the company u.s. media properties. similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which the company, or entities in which the company has an interest, operate could adversely affect its business and results of operations. in addition, changes in tax laws, regulations or the interpretations thereof in the u.s. and other jurisdictions in which the company has operations could affect the company results of operations. 28 table of contents u.s. citizenship requirements may limit common stock ownership and voting rights. the company owns broadcast station licensees in connection with its ownership and operation of u.s. television stations. under u.s. law, no broadcast station licensee may be owned by a corporation if more than 25% of its stock is owned or voted by non-u.s. persons, their representatives, or by any other corporation organized under the laws of a foreign country. the company restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to prevent, cure or mitigate the effect of stock ownership above the applicable foreign ownership threshold by taking any action including: refusing to permit any transfer of common stock to or ownership of common stock by a non-u.s. stockholder; voiding a transfer of common stock to a non-u.s. stockholder; suspending rights of stock ownership if held by a non-u.s. stockholder; or redeeming common stock held by a non-u.s. stockholder. in order to maintain compliance with u.s. law, as of april 2013, the suspension of voting rights of the class b common stock held by non-u.s. stockholders was 40%. this suspension will remain in place for as long as the company deems it necessary to maintain compliance with applicable u.s. law, and may be adjusted by the audit committee as it deems appropriate. the company is not able to predict whether it will need to adjust the suspension or whether additional action pursuant to its restated certificate of incorporation may be necessary. the fcc could review the company compliance with applicable u.s. law in connection with its consideration of the company renewal applications for licenses to operate the broadcast stations the company owns. the company and news corp face investigations regarding allegations of phone hacking, illegal data access, inappropriate payments to public officials and other related matters and related civil lawsuits. u.s. regulators and governmental authorities are conducting investigations relating to the u.k. newspaper matters. the company is cooperating with these investigations. it is not possible at this time to estimate the liability, if any, of the company relating to these investigations. in connection with the separation, the company and news corp agreed in the separation and distribution agreement that the company will indemnify news corp, on an after-tax basis, for payments made after the separation arising out of civil claims and investigations relating to the u.k. newspaper matters, as well as legal and professional fees and expenses paid in connection with the related criminal matters, other than fees, expenses and costs relating to employees who are not (i) directors, officers or certain designated employees or (ii) with respect to civil matters, co-defendants with news corp (the indemnity ). as of june 30, 2013, the company recognized approximately $40 million related to the fair value of amounts accrued by news corp as of the date of the separation which are expected to be covered by the indemnity and has provided an additional $110 million for the fair value of expected future payments to be made under the indemnity. if additional information becomes available and as payments are made, the company will update the liability provision for the indemnity. it is possible that these proceedings and any adverse resolution thereof, including any fines or other penalties associated with any plea, judgment or similar result could damage the company reputation, impair its ability to conduct its business and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. risks related to the separation if the separation, together with certain related transactions, were ultimately determined to be taxable transactions for u.s. federal income tax purposes, then we could be subject to significant tax liability. the company received (i) a private letter ruling from the irs substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution of class a common stock and class b common stock of news corp qualifies as tax-free under sections 368 and 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ) except for cash received in lieu of fractional shares of news corp stock and (ii) an opinion from the law firm of hogan lovells us llp confirming the tax-free status of the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes, including confirming the satisfaction of the requirements under section 368 and 355 of the code not specifically addressed in the irs private letter ruling. the opinion of hogan lovells us llp will not be binding on the irs or the courts, and there is no assurance that the irs or a court will not take a contrary position. 29 table of contents the private letter ruling and the opinion rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations from the company and news corp regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. notwithstanding the receipt of the private letter ruling and the opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution or the internal transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated, or that the distribution or the internal transactions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of a significant change in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. if the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and u.s. stockholders and certain non-u.s. stockholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. in addition, if the internal reorganization and/or the distribution is ultimately determined to be taxable, the company would recognize gains on the internal reorganization and/or recognize gain in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of shares of the news corp common stock distributed to our stockholders on the distribution date over our tax basis in such shares of our common stock. we could be liable for income taxes owed by news corp. each member of our consolidated group, which until june 28, 2013 included news corp and each of our other subsidiaries, is jointly and severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of each other member of the consolidated group. consequently, we could be liable in the event any such liability is incurred, and not discharged, by any other member of our consolidated group. under the terms of the tax sharing and indemnification agreement that we entered into in connection with the separation, we will be required to indemnify news corp for any such liability. disputes or assessments could arise during future audits by the irs in amounts that we cannot quantify. we might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances because of certain restrictions relating to requirements for tax-free distributions for u.s. federal income tax purposes. our ability to engage in significant strategic transactions and equity issuances may be limited or restricted in order to preserve, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the distribution. even if the distribution otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code, it may result in corporate level taxable gain to us under section 355(e) of the code if 50% or more, by vote or value, of shares of our stock or news corp stock are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the distribution. to preserve the tax-free treatment of the distribution and the internal transactions in connection with the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes, under the tax sharing and indemnification agreement that we entered into with news corp, we will be prohibited from taking or failing to take certain actions that may prevent the distribution and related transactions from being tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. further, for the two-year period following the distribution, we may be prohibited from: approving or allowing any transaction that results in a change in ownership of more than a specified percentage of our common stock, a merger, a redemption of equity securities exceeding 20% of its outstanding capital stock, a sale or other disposition of certain businesses or a specified percentage of our assets, or an acquisition of a business or assets with equity securities to the extent one or more persons would acquire in excess of a specified percentage of our common stock these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new business or other transactions that may maximize the value of our business. 30 table of contents the separation and distribution agreement may restrict us from acquiring or owning certain types of assets in the u.s. the fcc has promulgated certain rules and regulations that limit the ownership of radio and television broadcast stations, television broadcast networks and newspapers (the broadcast ownership rules ). under the fcc rules for determining ownership of the media assets described above, the murdoch family trust ownership interest in both news corp and the company following the separation would generally result in each company businesses and assets being attributable to the murdoch family trust for purposes of determining compliance with the broadcast ownership rules. consequently, our future conduct, including the acquisition of any broadcast networks, or stations or any newspapers, in the same local markets in which news corp owns or operates newspapers or has acquired television stations, may affect news corp ability to own and operate its newspapers or any television stations it acquires or otherwise comply with the broadcast ownership rules. therefore, we and news corp agreed in the separation and distribution agreement that if the company acquires, after the separation, newspapers, radio or television broadcast stations or television broadcast networks in the u.s. and such acquisition would impede or be reasonably likely to impede news corp business, then the company will be required to take certain actions, including divesting assets, in order to permit news corp to hold its media interests and to comply with such rules. this agreement will effectively limit the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us if such activities or strategic business alternatives implicate the broadcast ownership rules and would impede or be reasonably likely to impede news corp business. the indemnification arrangements we entered into with news corp in connection with the separation may require us to divert cash to satisfy indemnification obligations to news corp. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other related agreements, the company agreed to indemnify news corp for certain liabilities and news corp agreed to indemnify the company for certain liabilities. as a result, we could be required, under certain circumstances, to indemnify news corp against certain liabilities to the extent such liabilities result from an action we or our affiliates take or from any breach of our or our affiliates representations, covenants or obligations under the separation and distribution agreement, tax sharing and indemnification agreement or any other agreement entered into in connection with the separation. after the separation, certain of our directors and officers may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their equity ownership in news corp, and certain of our officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because they also serve as officers and/or on the board of directors of news corp. following the separation, certain of our directors and executive officers own shares of news corp common stock, and the individual holdings may be significant for some of these individuals compared to their total assets. in addition, following the separation, certain of our officers and directors also serve as officers and/or as directors of news corp, including our chairman and chief executive officer k. rupert murdoch, who serves as news corp executive chairman, and our group general counsel gerson zweifach, who serves as news corp general counsel. this ownership or service to both companies may create, or may create the appearance of, conflicts of interest when these directors and officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for news corp and us. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute that may arise between news corp and us regarding the terms of the agreements governing the internal reorganization, the distribution and the relationship thereafter between the companies, including with respect to the indemnification of certain matters. in addition to any other arrangements that the company and news corp may agree to implement, the company and news corp agreed that officers and directors who serve at both companies will recuse themselves from decisions where conflicts arise due to their positions at both companies. 31 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company has exposure to several types of market risk: changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and stock prices. the company neither holds nor issues financial instruments for trading purposes. the following sections provide quantitative information on the company exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and stock price risk. the company makes use of sensitivity analyses that are inherently limited in estimating actual losses in fair value that can occur from changes in market conditions. foreign currency exchange rates the company conducts operations in two principal currencies: the u.s. dollar and the euro. these currencies operate as the functional currency for the company u.s. and european operations, respectively. cash is managed centrally within each of the two regions with net earnings reinvested locally and working capital requirements met from existing liquid funds. to the extent such funds are not sufficient to meet working capital requirements, draw downs in the appropriate local currency are available from intercompany borrowings. since earnings of the company european operations are expected to be reinvested in those businesses indefinitely, the company does not hedge its investment in the net assets of those foreign operations. at june 30, 2013, the company outstanding financial instruments with foreign currency exchange rate risk consists of foreign currency forward contracts with a fair value of approximately $3 million and foreign denominated debt with a fair value of $137 million. the aggregate fair value of the foreign denominated debt and foreign currency forward contracts with foreign currency exchange risk at june 30, 2013 and 2012 was $134 million and $147 million, respectively. the aggregate notional amount of the foreign denominated debt and foreign currency forward contracts with foreign currency exchange rate risk at june 30, 2013 and 2012 was $842 million and $447 million, respectively. the increase in notional amounts primarily reflects (i) the net impact of entering into new and settling expiring foreign currency forward contracts and (ii) the consolidation of sky deutschland. the potential change in the fair values of these instruments resulting from a 10% adverse change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates at june 30, 2013 and 2012 would be approximately $79 million and $26 million, respectively. interest rates the company current financing arrangements and facilities include approximately $16,458 million of outstanding fixed-rate debt and the new credit agreement, which carries variable interest. fixed and variable rate debts are impacted differently by changes in interest rates. a change in the interest rate or yield of fixed rate debt will only impact the fair market value of such debt, while a change in the interest rate of variable debt will impact interest expense, as well as the amount of cash required to service such debt. as of june 30, 2013, substantially all of the company financial instruments with exposure to interest rate risk were denominated in u.s. dollars and had an aggregate fair value of approximately $18,756 million. the potential change in fair market value for these financial instruments from an adverse 10% change in quoted interest rates across all maturities, often referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve, would be approximately $865 million at june 30, 2013. stock prices the company has common stock investments in several publicly traded companies that are subject to market price volatility. these investments principally represent the company equity method affiliates and had an aggregate fair value of approximately $7,831 million as of june 30, 2013. a hypothetical decrease in the market price of these investments of 10% would result in a fair value of approximately $7,048 million. such a hypothetical decrease would result in a before tax decrease in comprehensive income of approximately $27 million, as any changes in fair value of the company equity method affiliates are not recognized unless deemed other-than-temporary. 73 table of contents credit risk cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. deposits held with banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions of reputable credit and, therefore, bear minimal credit risk. the company receivables did not represent significant concentrations of credit risk at june 30, 2013 or june 30, 2012 due to the wide variety of customers, markets and geographic areas to which the company products and services are sold. the company monitors its positions with, and the credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to its financial instruments. the company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. at june 30, 2013, the company did not anticipate nonperformance by any of the counterparties. 74 table of contentsrisk factors 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70risk factors 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65risk factors 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61risk factors 24 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62risk factors 27 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71