risk factors as a financial services organization, we are subject to a number of risks inherent in our transactions and present in the business decisions we make. described below are the primary risks and uncertainties that if realized could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and our access to liquidity. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. our erm program incorporates risk management throughout our organization to identify, understand, and manage the risks presented by our business activities. our erm program identifies key's major risk categories as: credit risk, compliance risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, market risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, and model risk. these risk factors, and other risks we may face, are discussed in more detail in other sections of this report. i. credit risk should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the strong recovery in commercial real estate, in particular the multifamily property sector, has contributed to a surge in investment and development activity. as a result, property values are elevated and oversupply is a concern in certain markets. substantial deterioration in property market fundamentals could have an impact on our portfolio, with a large portion of our clients active in real estate and specifically multifamily real estate. a correction in the real estate markets could impact the ability of borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. a portion of our commercial real estate loans are construction loans. typically these properties are not fully leased at loan origination; the borrower may require additional leasing through the life of the loan to provide cash flow to support debt service payments. if property market fundamentals deteriorate sharply, the execution of new leases could slow, compromising the borrower's ability to cover the debt service payments. we are subject to the risk of defaults by our loan counterparties and clients. many of our routine transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of counterparties and clients, including financial statements, credit reports and other information. we may also rely on representations of those counterparties, clients, or other third parties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. the inaccuracy of that information or those representations affects our ability to accurately evaluate the default risk of a counterparty or client. given the dodd-frank legislative mandate to centrally clear eligible derivative contracts, we rely on central clearing counterparties to remain open and operationally viable at all times. the possibility of a large member failure or a cybersecurity breach could result in a disruption in this market. 18 table of contents various factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to increase. we maintain an alll (a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense) that represents our estimate of losses based on our evaluation of risks within our existing portfolio of loans. the level of the allowance reflects our ongoing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan and lease loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and incurred losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the alll inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and current trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, the softening of certain economic indicators that we are more susceptible to, such as unemployment and real estate values, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may indicate the need for an increase in the alll. bank regulatory agencies periodically review our alll and, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management, may necessitate an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. in addition, if charge-offs outpace the estimate in our current methodology used to establish our alll (i.e., if the loan and lease allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan and lease loss provisions to increase the alll, which would decrease our net income and capital. declining asset prices could adversely affect us. during the great recession, the volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets experienced reached extreme levels. this severe market disruption led to the failure of several substantial financial institutions, which caused the credit markets to constrain and also caused a widespread liquidation of assets. these asset sales, along with asset sales by other leveraged investors, including some hedge funds, rapidly drove down prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded asset classes. asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of many of the asset categories represented on our balance sheet, and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable. although the recovery has been in place for some time, a new recession would likely reverse recent positive trends in asset prices. we have concentrated credit exposure in commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, and commercial leases. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 72% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans, and have a different risk profile that includes, among other risks, a borrower's failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. the deterioration of a larger loan or a group of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which could result in net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs. ii. compliance risk we are subject to extensive and increasing government regulation and supervision. as a financial services institution, we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, which has increased in recent years due to the implementation of the dodd-frank act and other financial reform initiatives. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, the dif, consumers, taxpayers, and the banking system as a whole, not our debtholders or shareholders. these regulations increase our costs and affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to repurchase our common shares, and growth, among other things. keybank has faced scrutiny from our bank supervisors in the examination process and aggressive enforcement of regulations at the federal and state levels, particularly due to keybank's and keycorp's status as covered institutions under the dodd-frank act's heightened prudential standards and regulations, including its provisions designed to protect consumers from financial abuse. although many parts of the dodd-frank act are now in effect, other parts continue to be implemented, as well as other significant regulations which have been enacted with upcoming effective dates. as a result, some uncertainty remains as to the aggregate impact upon key of the dodd-frank act and other significant regulations. changes to existing statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or their interpretation or implementation could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. these changes may subject us to additional costs and increase our litigation risk should we fail to appropriately comply. such changes may also limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, affect the investments we make, and change the manner in which we operate. 19 table of contents as a financial institution, we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. as a result of the merger with first niagara, we acquired certain lines of business that offer additional consumer products, including auto finance and insurance products. in addition, the first niagara acquisition allowed us to expand our residential mortgage business. with our increased size and expanded lines of business, we are subject to additional heightened requirements and expectations. the amount of regulation and supervision to which we are subject and our cost of compliance have increased with the additional consumer products that we now offer. we, like other companies who provide similar consumer products, face the risk of class actions and other litigation and claims arising out of these products. additionally, federal banking law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal banking regulators. this enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and affiliated parties. these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations, for practices determined to be unsafe or unsound, or for practices or acts that are determined to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive. for more information, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. changes in accounting policies, standards, and interpretations could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. the fasb and other bodies that establish accounting standards periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of key's financial statements. additionally, those bodies that establish and/or interpret the financial accounting and reporting standards (such as the fasb, sec, and banking regulators) may change prior interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how key records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, key could be required to retroactively apply a new or revised standard, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results. iii. operational risk we are subject to a variety of operational risks. in addition to the other risks discussed in this section, we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes, internal controls, systems, and external events. operational risk includes the risk of fraud by employees, clerical and record-keeping errors, nonperformance by vendors, threats to cybersecurity, and computer/telecommunications malfunctions. operational risk also encompasses compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as well as the risk of our noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. we are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business, such as certain loan processing functions. for example, breakdowns or failures of our vendors' systems or employees could be a source of operational risk to us. resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation, inability to secure insurance, litigation, regulatory intervention or sanctions or foregone business opportunities. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications, information systems (both internal and provided by third parties) and the internet to conduct our business. our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of daily transactions in compliance with legal, regulatory and internal standards and specifications. in addition, a significant portion of our operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of personal and confidential information, such as the personal information of our customers and clients. these risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase mobile payments and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications. in the event of a failure, interruption, or breach of our information systems, we may be unable to avoid impact to our customers. other u.s. financial service institutions and companies have reported breaches, some severe, in the security of their websites or other systems and several financial institutions, including key, experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks, some of which involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems. other potential attacks have attempted to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information or destroy data, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, phishing, cyberattacks, and other means. to date, none of these efforts has had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. such security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, 20 table of contents including persons who are involved with organized crime or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. those same parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. our security systems may not be able to protect our information systems from similar attacks due to the rapid evolution and creation of sophisticated cyberattacks. we are also subject to the risk that our employees may intercept and transmit unauthorized confidential or proprietary information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action, and reputational harm. we rely on third parties to perform significant operational services for us. third parties perform significant operational services on our behalf. these third parties are subject to similar risks as key relating to cybersecurity, breakdowns or failures of their own systems or employees. one or more of these third parties may experience a cybersecurity event or operational disruption and, if any such event does occur, it may not be adequately addressed, either operationally or financially, by such third party. certain of these third parties may have limited indemnification obligations or may not have the financial capacity to satisfy their indemnification obligations. financial or operational difficulties of a third party could also impair our operations if those difficulties interfere with such third party's ability to serve us. additionally, some of our outsourcing arrangements are located overseas and, therefore, are subject to risks unique to the regions in which they operate. if a critical third party is unable to meet our needs in a timely manner or if the services or products provided by such third party are terminated or otherwise delayed and if we are not able to develop alternative sources for these services and products quickly and cost-effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, regulatory guidance adopted by federal banking regulators related to how banks select, engage and manage their third parties affects the circumstances and conditions under which we work with third parties and the cost of managing such relationships. we are subject to claims and litigation. from time to time, customers, vendors or other parties may make claims and take legal action against us. we maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment that a loss is probable, estimable, and consistent with applicable accounting guidance. at any given time we have a variety of legal actions asserted against us in various stages of litigation. resolution of a legal action can often take years. whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number and risk of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry due to legal changes to the consumer protection laws provided for by the dodd-frank act and the creation of the cfpb. there have also been a number of highly publicized legal claims against financial institutions involving fraud or misconduct by employees, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, and our methods of reducing risk exposure may not be effective. we regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. we also maintain an erm program designed to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze our risks. any system of controls and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. additionally, instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of market compliance, credit, liquidity, operational and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. as a result, we may not be able to effectively mitigate our risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk. 21 table of contents climate change, severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. natural disasters, including severe weather events of increasing strength and frequency due to climate change, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business or upon third parties who perform operational services for us or our customers. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in lost revenue or cause us to incur additional expenses. iv. liquidity risk capital and liquidity requirements imposed by the dodd-frank act require banks and bhcs to maintain more and higher quality capital and high quality liquid assets than has historically been the case. evolving capital standards resulting from the dodd-frank act and the regulatory capital rules adopted by our regulators will have a significant impact on banks and bhcs, including key. for a detailed explanation of the new capital and liquidity rules that became effective for us on a phased-in basis on january 1, 2015, see the section titled regulatory capital requirements under the heading supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. the federal reserve's capital standards will require key to maintain more and higher quality capital and could limit our business activities (including lending) and our ability to expand organically or through acquisitions. they could also result in our taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. capital securities usually are the most expensive form of funding, and increasing capital levels could adversely impact key's profitability. in addition, the new liquidity standards required us to increase our holdings of higher-quality liquid assets, may require us to change our future mix of investment alternatives, and may impact future business relationships with certain customers. additionally, support of liquidity standards may be satisfied through the use of term wholesale borrowings, which tend to have a higher cost of funds than that of traditional core deposits. further, the federal reserve requires bhcs to obtain approval before making a capital distribution, such as paying or increasing dividends, implementing common stock repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. the federal reserve has detailed the processes that bhcs should maintain to ensure they hold adequate capital under severely adverse conditions and have ready access to funding before engaging in any capital activities. these rules could limit key's ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. for more information, see the section titled regulatory capital requirements under the heading supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. federal agencies may take actions that disrupt the stability of the u.s. financial system. since 2008, the federal government has taken unprecedented steps to provide stability to and confidence in the financial markets. for example, the federal reserve maintains a variety of stimulus policy measures designed to maintain a low interest rate environment. in light of recent moderate improvements in the u.s. economy, federal agencies may no longer support such initiatives. the discontinuation of such initiatives may have unanticipated or unintended impacts, perhaps severe, on the financial markets. these effects could include a sudden move to higher debt yields, which could have an unfavorable effect on the quantity and cost of borrowed funds. in addition, new initiatives or legislation may not be implemented, or, if implemented, may not be adequate to counter any negative effects of discontinuing programs or, in the event of an economic downturn, to support and stabilize the economy. we rely on dividends by our subsidiaries for most of our funds. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. with the exception of cash that we may raise from debt and equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our funding from dividends by our subsidiaries. dividends by our subsidiaries are the principal source of funds for the dividends we pay on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal payments on our debt. federal banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that keybank (keycorp's largest subsidiary) can pay. for further information on the regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by keybank, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. in the event keybank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common or preferred stock. such a situation could result in key losing access to alternative wholesale funding sources. in 22 table of contents addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. we are subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our funding levels. market conditions or other events could negatively affect our access to or the cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, or fund asset growth and new business initiatives at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although we maintain a liquid asset portfolio and have implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet commitments under various economic conditions (including a reduced level of wholesale funding sources), a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on us. if the cost effectiveness or the availability of supply in these credit markets is reduced for a prolonged period of time, our funding needs may require us to access funding and manage liquidity by other means. these alternatives may include generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, borrowing under certain secured borrowing arrangements, using relationships developed with a variety of fixed income investors, and further managing loan growth and investment opportunities. these alternative means of funding may result in an increase to the overall cost of funds and may not be available under stressed conditions, which would cause us to liquidate a portion of our liquid asset portfolio to meet any funding needs. our credit ratings affect our liquidity position. the rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of keycorp and keybank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors. some of these factors are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy and changes in rating methodologies as a result of the dodd-frank act. we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings. following key's announced acquisition of first niagara in october 2015, s&amp;p and fitch affirmed key's ratings but changed the outlook to negative. on july 13, 2016, moody's subsequently confirmed key's ratings and changed the outlook from negative to stable, concluding their review. a rating downgrade of the securities of keycorp or keybank could adversely affect our access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, reducing our ability to generate income. v. market risk a reversal of the u.s. economic recovery and a return to volatile or recessionary conditions in the u.s. or abroad could negatively affect our business or our access to capital markets. a worsening of economic and market conditions, downside shocks, or a return to recessionary economic conditions could result in adverse effects on key and others in the financial services industry. the prolonged low-interest rate environment, despite a generally improving economy, has presented a challenge for the industry, including key, and affects business and financial performance. in particular, we could face some of the following risks, and other unforeseeable risks, in connection with a downturn in the economic and market environment or in the face of downside shocks or a recession, whether in the united states or internationally: a loss of confidence in the financial services industry and the equity markets by investors, placing pressure on the price of key's common shares or decreasing the credit or liquidity available to key; a decrease in consumer and business confidence levels generally, decreasing credit usage and investment or increasing delinquencies and defaults; a decrease in household or corporate incomes, reducing demand for key's products and services; a decrease in the value of collateral securing loans to key's borrowers or a decrease in the quality of key's loan portfolio, increasing loan charge-offs and reducing key's net income; a decrease in our ability to liquidate positions at acceptable market prices; 23 table of contents the extended continuation of the current low-interest rate environment, continuing or increasing downward pressure to our net interest income; an increase in competition or consolidation in the financial services industry; increased concern over and scrutiny of the capital and liquidity levels of financial institutions generally, and those of our transaction counterparties specifically; a decrease in confidence in the creditworthiness of the united states or other governments whose securities we hold; and an increase in limitations on or the regulation of financial services companies like key. we are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect net interest income. our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the federal reserve. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rate controls being applied by the federal reserve, could influence the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities, the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, and the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, net interest income, and therefore our earnings, would be adversely affected. conversely, earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. our methods for simulating and analyzing our interest rate exposure are discussed more fully under the heading risk management management of interest risk exposure found in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. our profitability depends upon economic conditions in the geographic regions where we have significant operations and on certain market segments in which we conduct significant business. we have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic regions where our bank branches are located washington; oregon/alaska; rocky mountains; indiana/northwest ohio/michigan; central/southwest ohio; east ohio/western pennsylvania; atlantic; western new york; eastern new york; and new england and additional exposure to geographic regions outside of our branch footprint. the moderate u.s. economic recovery in the various regions where we operate has been uneven, and continued improvement in the overall u.s. economy may not result in similar improvement, or any improvement at all, in the economy of any particular geographic region. adverse conditions in a geographic region such as inflation, unemployment, recession, natural disasters, or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of borrowers in these regions to repay their loans, decrease the value of collateral securing loans made in these regions, or affect the ability of our customers in these regions to continue conducting business with us. additionally, a significant portion of our business activities are concentrated within the real estate and healthcare market segments. the profitability of some of these market segments depends upon the health of the overall economy, seasonality, the impact of regulation, and other factors that are beyond our control and may be beyond the control of our customers in these market segments. an economic downturn in one or more geographic regions where we conduct our business, or any significant or prolonged impact on the profitability of one or more of the market segments with which we conduct significant business activity, could adversely affect the demand for our products and services, the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of our deposit funding sources. 24 table of contents the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties in the financial services industries, and we routinely execute transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. defaults by one or more financial services institutions have led to, and may cause, market-wide liquidity problems and losses. many of our transactions with other financial institutions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be affected when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivatives exposure due us. tax reform may impact our tax liabilities, the tax liabilities of our clients, and how we do business. following the u.s. general election, a number of new tax reform ideas have been proposed. tax reform and other changes in tax laws may cause an increase or decrease in our overall income tax liabilities. changes in tax laws generally will impact our clients in different ways and magnitudes and could also impact how we deliver products to our clients and satisfy our community reinvestment obligations. current tax reform proposals include reducing the statutory federal income tax rate, which generally would reduce our tax expense as well as the tax expense of our clients. however, such a reduction would, in general, negatively impact the economic value of tax-exempt investments, including corporate-owned life insurance and municipal securities, and also impact certain tax leasing transactions. other potential changes such as the loss of certain tax deductions and credits could have an adverse impact on our overall income tax obligation and on our clients, which could change how we conduct our business operations in the future. vi. reputation risk damage to our reputation could significantly harm our businesses. our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors, and highly-skilled management and employees is affected by our reputation. public perception of the financial services industry has declined as a result of the great recession. we face increased public and regulatory scrutiny resulting from the financial crisis and economic downturn. significant harm to our reputation can also arise from other sources, including employee misconduct, actual or perceived unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum or required standards of service and quality, compliance failures, disclosure of confidential information, significant or numerous failures, interruptions or breaches of our information systems, and the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors. actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry may have a significant adverse effect on our reputation. we could also suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interests is complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the actual or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, which could adversely affect our businesses. vii. strategic risk we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including among others our ability to develop and successfully execute our strategic plans and initiatives. our strategic priorities include growing profitably and maintaining financial strength; effectively managing risk and reward; engaging a high-performing, talented, and diverse workforce; embracing the changes required by our clients and the marketplace; and acquiring and expanding targeted client relationships. our inability to execute on or achieve the anticipated outcomes of our strategic priorities may affect how the market perceives us and could impede our growth and profitability. 25 table of contents we operate in a highly competitive industry. we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of competitors, some of which are larger and may have more financial resources than us. our competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various geographic regions in which we operate. we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional, national, and global financial services firms. in addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. we expect the competitive landscape of the financial services industry to become even more intense as a result of legislative, regulatory, structural, and technological changes. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain, and build long-term customer relationships based on quality service and competitive prices; our ability to develop competitive products and technologies demanded by our customers, while maintaining our high ethical standards and keeping our assets safe and sound; our ability to attract, retain, and develop a highly competent employee workforce; and industry and general economic trends. increased competition in the financial services industry, or our failure to perform in any of these areas, could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. maintaining or increasing our market share depends upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive prices. the continuous, widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services and mobile devices (including smartphones and tablets), requires us to evaluate our product and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services, as well as our distribution of them, to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. new technologies have altered consumer behavior by allowing consumers to complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. new products allow consumers to maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and related income generated from those deposits. the increasing pressure from our competitors, both bank and nonbank, to keep pace and adopt new technologies and products and services requires us to incur substantial expense. we may be unsuccessful in developing or introducing new products and services, modifying our existing products and services, adapting to changing consumer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance or regulatory approval, sufficiently developing or maintaining a loyal customer base or offering products and services at prices lower than the prices offered by our competitors. these risks may affect our ability to achieve growth in our market share and could reduce both our revenue streams from certain products and services and our revenues from our net interest income. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, retain, motivate, and develop key people. competition for the best people in most of our business activities is ongoing and can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want or need to serve our customers. to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate these employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. various restrictions on compensation of certain executive officers were imposed under the dodd-frank act and other legislation and regulations. in addition, our incentive compensation structure is subject to review by our regulators, who may identify deficiencies in the structure of or issue additional guidance on our compensation practices, causing us to make changes that may affect our ability to offer competitive compensation to these individuals or that place us at a disadvantage to non-financial service competitors. our ability to attract and retain talented employees may be affected by these developments, or any new executive compensation limits and regulations. acquisitions or strategic partnerships may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. acquiring other banks, bank branches, or other businesses involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions or partnerships, including exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired company; diversion of our management's time and attention; significant integration risk with respect to employees, accounting systems, and technology platforms; 26 table of contents increased regulatory scrutiny; and, the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition and strategic partnership opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions. as a result, mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities, such as the first niagara merger that we consummated on august 1, 2016, may occur at any time. acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values. therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share could occur in connection with any future transaction. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger with first niagara. keycorp consummated its merger with first niagara on august 1, 2016. the success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine the businesses of keycorp and first niagara in a manner that permits growth opportunities, including, among other things, enhanced revenues and revenue synergies, an expanded market reach and operating efficiencies, and that does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of keycorp or first niagara nor result in decreased revenues due to loss of customers. if we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the surviving corporation's business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. in addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of our ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. we will continue to incur transaction and integration costs in connection with the first niagara merger. we incurred and expect to continue to incur significant, nonrecurring costs in connection with consummating the first niagara merger. in addition, we will continue to incur integration costs as we integrate our business and first niagara's business, including facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. there can be no assurances that the expected benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will be realized to offset these transaction and integration costs over time. we may also incur additional costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. viii. model risk we rely on quantitative models to manage certain accounting, risk management and capital planning functions. we use quantitative models to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating incurred loan losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, managing risk, and for capital planning purposes (including during the ccar capital planning process). our modeling methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may be incorrect, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect this evolution. even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model's design. as a result, our models may not capture or fully express the risks we face, may suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we do not, or may lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we will operate. if our models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, we may not make appropriate risk management, capital planning, or other business or financial decisions. furthermore, strategies that we employ to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective or fully reliable, and as a result, we may realize losses or other lapses. banking regulators continue to focus on the models used by banks and bank holding companies in their businesses. the failure or inadequacy of a model may result in increased regulatory scrutiny on us or may result in an enforcement action or proceeding against us by one of our regulators. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management in the md&amp;a beginning on page 71 is incorporated herein by reference. 96 table of contentsrisk factors as a financial services organization, we are subject to a number of risks inherent in our transactions and present in the business decisions we make. described below are the primary risks and uncertainties that if realized could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and our access to liquidity. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. our erm program incorporates risk management throughout our organization to identify, understand, and manage the risks presented by our business activities. our erm program identifies key's major risk categories as: credit risk, compliance risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, market risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, and model risk. these risk factors, and other risks we may face, are discussed in more detail in other sections of this report. i. credit risk we have concentrated credit exposure in commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, and commercial leases. as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 73% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans, and have a different risk profile. the deterioration of a larger loan or a group of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which could result in net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs. should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the strong recovery in commercial real estate over the past several years, in particular the multifamily property sector, has contributed to a surge in investment and development activity. as a result, property values are elevated and oversupply is a concern in certain markets. substantial deterioration in property market fundamentals could have an impact on our portfolio, with a large portion of our clients active in real estate and specifically multifamily real estate. a correction in the real estate markets could impact the ability of borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. a portion of our commercial real estate loans are construction loans. typically these properties are not fully leased at loan origination; the borrower may require additional leasing through the life of the loan to provide cash flow to support debt service payments. if property market fundamentals deteriorate sharply, the execution of new leases could slow, compromising the borrower's ability to cover the debt service payments. we are subject to the risk of defaults by our loan counterparties and clients. many of our routine transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of counterparties and clients, including financial statements, credit reports and other information. we may also rely on representations of those counterparties, clients, or other third parties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. the inaccuracy of that information or those representations affects our ability to accurately evaluate the default risk of a counterparty or client. given the dodd-frank legislative mandate to centrally clear eligible derivative contracts, we rely on central clearing counterparties to remain open and operationally viable at all times. the possibility of a large member failure or a cybersecurity breach could result in a disruption in this market. 20 table of contents various factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to increase. we maintain an alll (a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense) that represents our estimate of losses based on our evaluation of risks within our existing portfolio of loans. the level of the allowance reflects our ongoing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan and lease loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and incurred losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the alll inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and current trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, the softening of certain economic indicators that we are more susceptible to, such as unemployment and real estate values, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may indicate the need for an increase in the alll. bank regulatory agencies periodically review our alll and, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management, may necessitate an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. in addition, if charge-offs outpace the estimate in our current methodology used to establish our alll (i.e., if the loan and lease allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan and lease loss provisions to increase the alll, which would decrease our net income and capital. declining asset prices could adversely affect us. during the great recession, the volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets experienced reached extreme levels. this severe market disruption led to the failure of several substantial financial institutions, which caused the credit markets to constrain and also caused a widespread liquidation of assets. these asset sales, along with asset sales by other leveraged investors, including some hedge funds, rapidly drove down prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded asset classes. asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of certain of the asset categories represented on our balance sheet, and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable. although the recovery has been in place for some time, a new recession would likely reverse recent positive trends in asset prices. ii. compliance risk we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. as a financial services institution, we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, which previously increased in recent years due to the implementation of the dodd-frank act and other financial reform initiatives. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, the dif, consumers, taxpayers, and the banking system as a whole, not our debtholders or shareholders. these regulations increase our costs and affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to repurchase our common shares, and growth, among other things. keybank has faced scrutiny from our bank supervisors in the examination process and aggressive enforcement of regulations at the federal and state levels, particularly due to keybank's and keycorp's status as covered institutions under the dodd-frank act's heightened prudential standards and regulations, including its provisions designed to protect consumers from financial abuse. although many parts of the dodd-frank act are now in effect, other parts continue to be implemented, as well as other significant regulations which have been enacted with upcoming effective dates. as a result, some uncertainty remains as to the aggregate impact upon key of the dodd-frank act and other significant regulations. changes to existing statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or their interpretation or implementation could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. these changes may subject us to additional costs and increase our litigation risk should we fail to appropriately comply. such changes may also limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, affect the investments we make, and change the manner in which we operate. additionally, federal banking law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal banking regulators. this enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and affiliated parties. these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations, for practices determined to be unsafe or unsound, or for practices or acts that are determined to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive. 21 table of contents for more information, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. changes in accounting policies, standards, and interpretations could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. the fasb periodically changes the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of key's financial statements. additionally, those bodies that establish and/or interpret the financial accounting and reporting standards (such as the fasb, sec, and banking regulators) may change prior interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how key records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, key could be required to retroactively apply a new or revised standard, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results. iii. operational risk we are subject to a variety of operational risks. in addition to the other risks discussed in this section, we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes, internal controls, systems, and external events. operational risk includes the risk of fraud by employees, clerical and record-keeping errors, nonperformance by vendors, threats to cybersecurity, and computer/telecommunications malfunctions. operational risk also encompasses compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as well as the risk of our noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. we are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business, such as certain loan processing functions. for example, breakdowns or failures of our vendors' systems or employees could be a source of operational risk to us. resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation, inability to secure insurance, litigation, regulatory intervention or sanctions or foregone business opportunities. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications, information systems (both internal and provided by third parties) and the internet to conduct our business. our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of daily transactions in compliance with legal, regulatory, and internal standards and specifications. in addition, a significant portion of our operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of personal and confidential information, such as the personal information of our customers and clients. these risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase mobile payments and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications. in the event of a failure, interruption, or breach of our information systems, we may be unable to avoid impact to our customers. such a failure, interruption, or breach could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action, or reputational harm. other u.s. financial service institutions and companies have reported breaches, some severe, in the security of their websites or other systems and several financial institutions, including key, experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks, some of which involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems. other potential attacks have attempted to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, hold for ransom, or alter or destroy data, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, phishing, cyberattacks, and other means. to date, none of these efforts has had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. such security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including persons who are involved with organized crime or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. those same parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. our security systems may not be able to protect our information systems from similar attacks due to the rapid evolution and creation of sophisticated cyberattacks. we are also subject to the risk that our employees may intercept and transmit unauthorized confidential or proprietary information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential, or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action, and reputational harm. 22 table of contents we rely on third parties to perform significant operational services for us. third parties perform significant operational services on our behalf. these third parties are subject to similar risks as key relating to cybersecurity, breakdowns or failures of their own systems or employees. one or more of these third parties may experience a cybersecurity event or operational disruption and, if any such event does occur, it may not be adequately addressed, either operationally or financially, by such third party. certain of these third parties may have limited indemnification obligations or may not have the financial capacity to satisfy their indemnification obligations. financial or operational difficulties of a third party could also impair our operations if those difficulties interfere with such third party's ability to serve us. additionally, some of our outsourcing arrangements are located overseas and, therefore, are subject to risks unique to the regions in which they operate. if a critical third party is unable to meet our needs in a timely manner or if the services or products provided by such third party are terminated or otherwise delayed and if we are not able to develop alternative sources for these services and products quickly and cost-effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, regulatory guidance adopted by federal banking regulators related to how banks select, engage and manage their third parties affects the circumstances and conditions under which we work with third parties and the cost of managing such relationships. we are subject to claims and litigation, which could result in significant financial liability and/or reputational risk. from time to time, customers, vendors, or other parties may make claims and take legal action against us. we maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment that a loss is probable, estimable, and consistent with applicable accounting guidance. at any given time we have a variety of legal actions asserted against us in various stages of litigation. resolution of a legal action can often take years. whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations, and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other relief. the number and risk of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry due to legal changes to the consumer protection laws provided for by the dodd-frank act and the creation of the cfpb. there have also been a number of highly publicized legal claims against financial institutions involving fraud or misconduct by employees, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, and our methods of reducing risk exposure may not be effective. we regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. we also maintain an erm program designed to identify, measure, monitor, report, and analyze our risks. any system of controls and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. additionally, instruments, systems, and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of market compliance, credit, liquidity, operational, and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. as a result, we may not be able to effectively mitigate our risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk. climate change, severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events could significantly impact our business. natural disasters, including severe weather events of increasing strength and frequency due to climate change, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business or upon third parties who perform operational services for us or our customers. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of 23 table of contents collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in lost revenue, or cause us to incur additional expenses. iv. liquidity risk capital and liquidity requirements imposed by the dodd-frank act require banks and bhcs to maintain more and higher quality capital and more and higher quality liquid assets than has historically been the case. evolving capital standards resulting from the dodd-frank act and the regulatory capital rules adopted by our regulators have had and will continue to have a significant impact on banks and bhcs, including key. for a detailed explanation of the capital and liquidity rules that became effective for us on a phased-in basis on january 1, 2015, see the section titled regulatory capital requirements under the heading supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. the federal reserve's capital standards require key to maintain more and higher quality capital and could limit our business activities (including lending) and our ability to expand organically or through acquisitions. they could also result in our taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. in addition, the new liquidity standards required us to increase our holdings of higher-quality liquid assets, may require us to change our future mix of investment alternatives, and may impact future business relationships with certain customers. additionally, support of liquidity standards may be satisfied through the use of term wholesale borrowings, which tend to have a higher cost than that of traditional core deposits. further, the federal reserve requires bhcs to obtain approval before making a capital distribution, such as paying or increasing dividends, implementing common stock repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. the federal reserve has detailed the processes that bhcs should maintain to ensure they hold adequate capital under severely adverse conditions and have ready access to funding before engaging in any capital activities. these rules could limit key's ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. for more information, see the section titled regulatory capital requirements under the heading supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. federal agencies may take actions that disrupt the stability of the u.s. financial system. since 2008, the federal government has taken unprecedented steps to provide stability to and confidence in the financial markets. for example, the federal reserve maintains a variety of stimulus policy measures designed to maintain a low interest rate environment. in light of recent moderate improvements in the u.s. economy, federal agencies may no longer support such initiatives. the discontinuation of such initiatives may have unanticipated or unintended impacts, perhaps severe, on the financial markets. these effects could include higher debt yields, a flatter or steeper slope to the yield curve, or unanticipated changes to quality spread premiums that may not follow historical relationships or patterns as the federal reserve gradually reverses quantitative easing and reduces the size of its balance sheet. in addition, new initiatives or legislation may not be implemented, or, if implemented, may not be adequate to counter any negative effects of discontinuing programs or, in the event of an economic downturn, to support and stabilize the economy. we rely on dividends by our subsidiaries for most of our funds. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. with the exception of cash that we may raise from debt and equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our funding from dividends by our subsidiaries. dividends by our subsidiaries are the principal source of funds for the dividends we pay on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal payments on our debt. federal banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that keybank (keycorp's largest subsidiary) can pay. for further information on the regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by keybank, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. in the event keybank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations, or pay dividends on our common or preferred stock. such a situation could result in key losing access to alternative wholesale funding sources. in addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. 24 table of contents we are subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our funding levels. market conditions or other events could negatively affect our access to or the cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, or fund asset growth and new business initiatives at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although we maintain a liquid asset portfolio and have implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet commitments under various economic conditions (including a reduced level of wholesale funding sources), a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on us. if the cost effectiveness or the availability of supply in these credit markets is reduced for a prolonged period of time, our funding needs may require us to access funding and manage liquidity by other means. these alternatives may include generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, borrowing under certain secured borrowing arrangements, using relationships developed with a variety of fixed income investors, and further managing loan growth and investment opportunities. these alternative means of funding may result in an increase to the overall cost of funds and may not be available under stressed conditions, which would cause us to liquidate a portion of our liquid asset portfolio to meet any funding needs. our credit ratings affect our liquidity position. the rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities issued by keycorp and keybank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors. some of these factors are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy and changes in rating methodologies. changes in any of these factors could impact our ability to maintain our current credit ratings. a rating downgrade of the securities of keycorp or keybank could adversely affect our access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, reducing our ability to generate income. v. market risk a reversal of the u.s. economic recovery and a return to volatile or recessionary conditions in the u.s. or abroad could negatively affect our business or our access to capital markets. a worsening of economic and market conditions, downside shocks, or a return to recessionary economic conditions could result in adverse effects on key and others in the financial services industry. the prolonged low-interest rate environment, despite a generally improving economy, has presented a challenge for the industry, including key, and affects business and financial performance. in particular, we could face some of the following risks, and other unforeseeable risks, in connection with a downturn in the economic and market environment or in the face of downside shocks or a recession, whether in the united states or internationally: a loss of confidence in the financial services industry and the debt and equity markets by investors, placing pressure on the price of key's common shares or decreasing the credit or liquidity available to key; a decrease in consumer and business confidence levels generally, decreasing credit usage and investment or increasing delinquencies and defaults; a decrease in household or corporate incomes, reducing demand for key's products and services; a decrease in the value of collateral securing loans to key's borrowers or a decrease in the quality of key's loan portfolio, increasing loan charge-offs and reducing key's net income; a decrease in our ability to liquidate positions at acceptable market prices; the extended continuation of the current low-interest rate environment, continuing or increasing downward pressure to our net interest income; an increase in competition or consolidation in the financial services industry; increased concern over and scrutiny of the capital and liquidity levels of financial institutions generally, and those of our transaction counterparties specifically; a decrease in confidence in the creditworthiness of the united states or other governments whose securities we hold; and an increase in limitations on or the regulation of financial services companies like key. 25 table of contents we are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect net interest income. our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the federal reserve. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rate controls being applied by the federal reserve, could influence the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities, the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, and the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. as the federal reserve continues to raise interest rates and begins to reverse quantitative easing, the behavior of national money market rate indices, the correlation of consumer deposit rates to financial market interest rates, and the setting of libor rates may not follow historical relationships, which could influence net interest income and net interest margin. moreover, if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, net interest income, and therefore our earnings, would be adversely affected. conversely, earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. our profitability depends upon economic conditions in the geographic regions where we have significant operations and on certain market segments in which we conduct significant business. we have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic regions where our bank branches are located washington; oregon/alaska; rocky mountains; indiana/northwest ohio/michigan; central/southwest ohio; east ohio/western pennsylvania; atlantic; western new york; eastern new york; and new england and additional exposure to geographic regions outside of our branch footprint. the moderate u.s. economic recovery in the various regions where we operate has been uneven, and continued improvement in the overall u.s. economy may not result in similar improvement, or any improvement at all, in the economy of any particular geographic region. adverse conditions in a geographic region such as inflation, unemployment, recession, natural disasters, or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of borrowers in these regions to repay their loans, decrease the value of collateral securing loans made in these regions, or affect the ability of our customers in these regions to continue conducting business with us. additionally, a significant portion of our business activities are concentrated within the real estate and healthcare market segments. the profitability of some of these market segments depends upon the health of the overall economy, seasonality, the impact of regulation, and other factors that are beyond our control and may be beyond the control of our customers in these market segments. an economic downturn in one or more geographic regions where we conduct our business, or any significant or prolonged impact on the profitability of one or more of the market segments with which we conduct significant business activity, could adversely affect the demand for our products and services, the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of our deposit funding sources. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties in the financial services industries, and we routinely execute transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. defaults by one or more financial services institutions have led to, and may cause, market-wide liquidity problems and losses. many of our transactions with other financial institutions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be affected when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivatives exposure due us. 26 table of contents tax reform is anticipated to have an impact on our tax liabilities, the tax liabilities of our clients, and how we do business. on december 22, 2017, the tcj act was signed into law. this comprehensive tax legislation provides for significant changes to the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, that impact corporate taxation requirements, such as the reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective january 1, 2018. the tcj act retains the low-income housing and research and development credits and repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax. other relevant corporate changes include earlier recognition of certain revenue; accelerating expensing of investments in tangible property, including leasing assets; and limiting several deductions such as fdic premiums, certain executive compensation, and meals and entertainment expense. key is currently assessing the overall impact of the tcj act on the future expected federal income tax obligations of both key and our clients. we expect that key's future federal income tax liabilities will overall benefit from the provisions in the tcj act. however, we also expect that certain aspects of our business may change over time; both as to the investments we may make as a result of tax reform and in response to how the provisions in the tcj act may affect our customers and influence how we offer and deliver our products and services in the future. refer to note 14, income taxes, for information on the impact of the tcj act to our 2017 financial results. vi. reputation risk damage to our reputation could significantly harm our businesses. our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors, and highly-skilled management and employees is affected by our reputation. public perception of the financial services industry has declined as a result of the great recession. we face increased public and regulatory scrutiny resulting from the financial crisis and economic downturn. significant harm to our reputation can also arise from other sources, including employee misconduct, actual or perceived unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum or required standards of service and quality, compliance failures, disclosure of confidential information, significant or numerous failures, interruptions or breaches of our information systems, failure to meet external commitments and goals, and the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors. actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry may have a significant adverse effect on our reputation. we could also suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interests is complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the actual or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, which could adversely affect our businesses. vii. strategic risk we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including among others our ability to develop and successfully execute our strategic plans and initiatives. our strategic priorities include growing profitably and maintaining financial strength; effectively managing risk and reward; engaging a high-performing, talented, and diverse workforce; embracing the changes required by our clients and the marketplace; and acquiring and expanding targeted client relationships. our inability to execute on or achieve the anticipated outcomes of our strategic priorities may affect how the market perceives us and could impede our growth and profitability. 27 table of contents we operate in a highly competitive industry. we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of competitors, some of which are larger and may have more financial resources than us. our competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various geographic regions in which we operate. we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional, national, and global financial services firms. in addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. we expect the competitive landscape of the financial services industry to become even more intense as a result of legislative, regulatory, structural, and technological changes. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain, and build long-term customer relationships based on quality service and competitive prices; our ability to develop competitive products and technologies demanded by our customers, while maintaining our high ethical standards and keeping our assets safe and sound; our ability to attract, retain, and develop a highly competent employee workforce; and industry and general economic trends. increased competition in the financial services industry, or our failure to perform in any of these areas, could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. maintaining or increasing our market share depends upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive prices. the continuous, widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services and mobile devices (including smartphones and tablets), requires us to evaluate our product and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services, as well as our distribution of them, to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. new technologies have altered consumer behavior by allowing consumers to complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. new products allow consumers to maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and related income generated from those deposits. the increasing pressure from our competitors, both bank and nonbank, to keep pace and adopt new technologies and products and services requires us to incur substantial expense. we may be unsuccessful in developing or introducing new products and services, modifying our existing products and services, adapting to changing consumer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance or regulatory approval, sufficiently developing or maintaining a loyal customer base, or offering products and services at prices lower than the prices offered by our competitors. these risks may affect our ability to achieve growth in our market share and could reduce both our revenue streams from certain products and services and our revenues from our net interest income. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, retain, motivate, and develop key people. competition for the best people in most of our business activities is ongoing and can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want or need to serve our customers. to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate these employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. various restrictions on compensation of certain executive officers were imposed under the dodd-frank act and other legislation and regulations. in addition, our incentive compensation structure is subject to review by our regulators, who may identify deficiencies in the structure of or issue additional guidance on our compensation practices, causing us to make changes that may affect our ability to offer competitive compensation to these individuals or that place us at a disadvantage to non-financial service competitors. our ability to attract and retain talented employees may be affected by these developments, or any new executive compensation limits and regulations. 28 table of contents acquisitions or strategic partnerships may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. acquiring other banks, bank branches, or other businesses involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions or partnerships, including exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired company; diversion of our management's time and attention; significant integration risk with respect to employees, accounting systems, and technology platforms; increased regulatory scrutiny; and, the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition and strategic partnership opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions. as a result, mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values. therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share could occur in connection with any future transaction. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger with first niagara. keycorp consummated its merger with first niagara on august 1, 2016. the success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend on, among other things, our ability to combine the businesses of keycorp and first niagara in a manner that permits growth opportunities, including, among other things, enhanced revenues and revenue synergies, an expanded market reach and operating efficiencies, and that does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of keycorp or first niagara nor result in decreased revenues due to loss of customers. if we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the surviving corporation's business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. in addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of our ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. viii. model risk we rely on quantitative models to manage certain accounting, risk management, and capital planning functions. we use quantitative models to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating incurred loan losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, managing risk, and for capital planning purposes (including during the ccar capital planning process). our modeling methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may be incorrect, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect this evolution. even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model's design. as a result, our models may not capture or fully express the risks we face, may suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we do not, or may lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we will operate. if our models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, we may not make appropriate risk management, capital planning, or other business or financial decisions. furthermore, strategies that we employ to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective or fully reliable, and as a result, we may realize losses or other lapses. banking regulators continue to focus on the models used by banks and bank holding companies in their businesses. the failure or inadequacy of a model may result in increased regulatory scrutiny on us or may result in an enforcement action or proceeding against us by one of our regulators. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management in the md&amp;a beginning on page 68 is incorporated herein by reference. 90 table of contentsrisk factors as a financial services organization, we are subject to a number of risks inherent in our transactions and present in the business decisions we make. described below are the primary risks and uncertainties that if realized could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and our access to liquidity. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. 23 table of contents our erm program incorporates risk management throughout our organization to identify, understand, and manage the risks presented by our business activities. our erm program identifies key's major risk categories as: credit risk, compliance risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, market risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, and model risk. these risk factors, and other risks we may face, are discussed in more detail in other sections of this report. i. credit risk we have concentrated credit exposure in commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, and commercial leases. as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 74% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans and have a different risk profile. the deterioration of a larger loan or a group of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which could result in net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs. should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the strong recovery in commercial real estate over the past several years, in particular the multifamily property sector, has contributed to a surge in investment and development activity. as a result, property values are elevated and oversupply is a concern in certain markets. substantial deterioration in property market fundamentals could have an impact on our portfolio, with a large portion of our clients active in real estate and specifically multifamily real estate. a correction in the real estate markets could impact the ability of borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. a portion of our commercial real estate loans are construction loans. typically these properties are not fully leased at loan origination; the borrower may require additional leasing through the life of the loan to provide cash flow to support debt service payments. if property market fundamentals deteriorate sharply, the execution of new leases could slow, compromising the borrower's ability to cover the debt service payments. we are subject to the risk of defaults by our loan counterparties and clients. many of our routine transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of counterparties and clients, including financial statements, credit reports and other information. we may also rely on representations of those counterparties, clients, or other third parties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. the inaccuracy of that information or those representations affects our ability to accurately evaluate the default risk of a counterparty or client. given the dodd-frank legislative mandate to centrally clear eligible derivative contracts, we rely on central clearing counterparties to remain open and operationally viable at all times. the possibility of a large member failure or a cybersecurity breach could result in a disruption in this market. 24 table of contents various factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to increase. we maintain an alll (a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense) that represents our estimate of losses based on our evaluation of risks within our existing portfolio of loans. the level of the allowance reflects our ongoing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan and lease loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and incurred losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the alll inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and current trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, the softening of certain economic indicators that we are more susceptible to, such as unemployment and real estate values, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may indicate the need for an increase in the alll. bank regulatory agencies periodically review our alll and, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management, may necessitate an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. in addition, if charge-offs outpace the estimate in our current methodology used to establish our alll (i.e., if the loan and lease allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan and lease loss provisions to increase the alll, which would decrease our net income and capital. declining asset prices could adversely affect us. during the great recession, the volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets experienced reached extreme levels. this severe market disruption led to the failure of several substantial financial institutions, which caused the credit markets to constrict and also caused a widespread liquidation of assets. these asset sales, along with asset sales by other leveraged investors, including some hedge funds, rapidly drove down prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded asset classes. asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of certain of the asset categories represented on our balance sheet, and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable. although the recovery has been in place for some time, a new recession would likely reverse recent positive trends in asset prices. ii. compliance risk we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. as a financial services institution, we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, which previously increased in recent years due to the implementation of the dodd-frank act and other financial reform initiatives. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, the dif, consumers, taxpayers, and the banking system as a whole, not our debtholders or shareholders. these regulations increase our costs and affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to repurchase our common shares, and growth, among other things. keybank and keycorp remain covered institutions under the dodd-frank act's heightened prudential standards and regulations, including its provisions designed to protect consumers from financial abuse. like similarly-situated institutions, key undergoes routine scrutiny from bank supervisors in the examination process and is subject to enforcement of regulations at the federal and state levels. although most parts of the dodd-frank act are now in effect, other significant regulations have been enacted with upcoming effective dates. as a result, some uncertainty remains as to the aggregate impact upon key of significant regulations. changes to existing statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or their interpretation or implementation could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. these changes may subject us to additional costs and increase our litigation risk should we fail to appropriately comply. such changes may also limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, affect the investments we make, and change the manner in which we operate. additionally, federal banking law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal banking regulators. this enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders, and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and affiliated parties. these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations, for practices determined to be unsafe or unsound, or for practices or acts that are determined to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive. for more information, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. 25 table of contents changes in accounting policies, standards, and interpretations could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. the fasb periodically changes the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of key's financial statements. additionally, those bodies that establish and/or interpret the financial accounting and reporting standards (such as the fasb, sec, and banking regulators) may change prior interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how key records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, key could be required to retroactively apply a new or revised standard, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results. for example, in june 2016, the fasb issued asu 2016-13, measurement of credit losses on financial instruments that will, effective january 1, 2020, substantially change the accounting for credit losses on loans and other financial assets held by banks, financial institutions, and other organizations. the standard removes the existing probable threshold in gaap for recognizing credit losses and instead requires companies to reflect their estimate of credit losses over the life of the financial assets. companies must consider all relevant information when estimating expected credit losses, including details about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. the standard is likely to have a negative impact, potentially materially, on the allowance for loan and lease losses and capital at adoption in 2020; however, key is still evaluating the impact. it is also possible that key's ongoing reported earnings and lending activity will be negatively impacted in periods following adoption. iii. operational risk we are subject to a variety of operational risks. in addition to the other risks discussed in this section, we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes, internal controls, systems, and external events. operational risk includes the risk of fraud by employees, clerical and record-keeping errors, nonperformance by vendors, threats to cybersecurity, and computer/telecommunications malfunctions. operational risk also encompasses compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards, as well as the risk of our noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. we are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business, such as certain loan processing functions. for example, breakdowns or failures of our vendors' systems or employees could be a source of operational risk to us. resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation, inability to secure insurance, litigation, regulatory intervention or sanctions, or foregone business opportunities. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications, information systems (both internal and provided by third parties) and the internet to conduct our business. our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of daily transactions in compliance with legal, regulatory, and internal standards and specifications. in addition, a significant portion of our operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of personal and confidential information, such as the personal information of our customers and clients. these risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase mobile payments and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications. in addition, our ability to extend protections to customers' information to individual customer devices is limited, especially if the customers willingly provide third parties access to their devices or information. in the event of a failure, interruption, or breach of our information systems, we may be unable to avoid impact to our customers. such a failure, interruption, or breach could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action, or reputational harm. other u.s. financial service institutions and companies have reported breaches, some severe, in the security of their websites or other systems and several financial institutions, including key, experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks, some of which involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems. other potential attacks have attempted to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, hold for ransom, or alter or destroy data, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, phishing, cyberattacks, and other means. to date, none of these efforts has had a material adverse effect on our business or operations or resulted in any material disruption of our operations or 26 table of contents material harm to our customers. such security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including persons who are involved with organized crime or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. those same parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. our security systems may not be able to protect our information systems from similar attacks due to the rapid evolution and creation of sophisticated cyberattacks. we are also subject to the risk that our employees may intercept and transmit unauthorized confidential or proprietary information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential, or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action, and reputational harm. over the last few years, several large companies have disclosed that they suffered substantial data security breaches, compromising millions of user accounts and credentials. to date, our losses and costs related to these breaches have not been material, but other similar events in the future could have a significant impact on us. we rely on third parties to perform significant operational services for us. third parties perform significant operational services on our behalf. these third parties are subject to similar risks as key relating to cybersecurity, breakdowns or failures of their own systems or employees. one or more of these third parties may experience a cybersecurity event or operational disruption and, if any such event does occur, it may not be adequately addressed, either operationally or financially, by such third party. certain of these third parties may have limited indemnification obligations or may not have the financial capacity to satisfy their indemnification obligations. financial or operational difficulties of a third party could also impair our operations if those difficulties interfere with such third party's ability to serve us. additionally, some of our outsourcing arrangements are located overseas and, therefore, are subject to risks unique to the regions in which they operate. if a critical third party is unable to meet our needs in a timely manner or if the services or products provided by such third party are terminated or otherwise delayed and if we are not able to develop alternative sources for these services and products quickly and cost-effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, regulatory guidance adopted by federal banking regulators related to how banks select, engage, and manage their third parties affects the circumstances and conditions under which we work with third parties and the cost of managing such relationships. we are subject to claims and litigation, which could result in significant financial liability and/or reputational risk. from time to time, customers, vendors, or other parties may make claims and take legal action against us. we maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment that a loss is probable, estimable, and consistent with applicable accounting guidance. at any given time we have a variety of legal actions asserted against us in various stages of litigation. resolution of a legal action can often take years. whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations, and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other relief. the number and risk of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry due to legal changes to the consumer protection laws provided for by the dodd-frank act and the creation of the cfpb. there have also been a number of highly publicized legal claims against financial institutions involving fraud or misconduct by employees, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, and our methods of reducing risk exposure may not be effective. we regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. we also maintain an erm program designed to identify, measure, monitor, report, and analyze our risks. any system of controls and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well 27 table of contents designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. additionally, instruments, systems, and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of market compliance, credit, liquidity, operational, and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. as a result, we may not be able to effectively mitigate our risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk. climate change, severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events could significantly impact our business. natural disasters, including severe weather events of increasing strength and frequency due to climate change, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business or upon third parties who perform operational services for us. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in lost revenue, or cause us to incur additional expenses. additionally, an extended period of shutdown of portions of the federal government could negatively impact the financial performance of certain customers and could negatively impact customers' future access to certain loan and guaranty programs. iv. liquidity risk capital and liquidity requirements imposed by the dodd-frank act require banks and bhcs to maintain more and higher quality capital and more and higher quality liquid assets than has historically been the case. evolving capital standards resulting from the dodd-frank act and the regulatory capital rules adopted by our regulators have had and will continue to have a significant impact on banks and bhcs, including key. for a detailed explanation of the capital and liquidity rules that became effective for us on a phased-in basis on january 1, 2015, see the section titled regulatory capital requirements under the heading supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. the federal reserve's capital standards require key to maintain more and higher quality capital and could limit our business activities (including lending) and our ability to expand organically or through acquisitions. they could also result in our taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. in addition, the new liquidity standards required us to increase our holdings of higher-quality liquid assets, may require us to change our future mix of investment alternatives, and may impact future business relationships with certain customers. additionally, support of liquidity standards may be satisfied through the use of term wholesale borrowings, which tend to have a higher cost than that of traditional core deposits. further, the federal reserve requires bhcs to obtain approval before making a capital distribution, such as paying or increasing dividends, implementing common stock repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. the federal reserve has detailed the processes that bhcs should maintain to ensure they hold adequate capital under severely adverse conditions and have ready access to funding before engaging in any capital activities. these rules could limit key's ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. for more information, see the section titled regulatory capital requirements under the heading supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. federal agencies' actions to ensure stability of the u.s. financial system may have disruptive effects on us. since 2008, the federal government has taken unprecedented steps to provide stability to and confidence in the financial markets. for example, the federal reserve maintains a variety of stimulus policy measures designed to maintain a low interest rate environment. in the future, federal agencies may no longer support such initiatives. the discontinuation of such initiatives may have unanticipated or unintended impacts, perhaps severe, on the financial markets. these effects could include higher debt yields, a flatter or steeper slope to the yield curve, or unanticipated changes to quality spread premiums that may not follow historical relationships or patterns as the federal reserve gradually reverses quantitative easing and reduces the size of its balance sheet. in addition, new initiatives or 28 table of contents legislation may not be implemented, or, if implemented, may not be adequate to counter any negative effects of discontinuing programs or, in the event of an economic downturn, to support and stabilize the economy. we rely on dividends by our subsidiaries for most of our funds. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. with the exception of cash that we may raise from debt and equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our funding from dividends by our subsidiaries. dividends by our subsidiaries are the principal source of funds for the dividends we pay on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal payments on our debt. federal banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that keybank (keycorp's largest subsidiary) can pay. for further information on the regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by keybank, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. in the event keybank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations, or pay dividends on our common or preferred stock. such a situation could result in key losing access to alternative wholesale funding sources. in addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. we are subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our funding levels. market conditions or other events could negatively affect our access to or the cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, or fund asset growth and new business initiatives at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although we maintain a liquid asset portfolio and have implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet commitments under various economic conditions (including a reduced level of wholesale funding sources), a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on us. if the cost effectiveness or the availability of supply in these credit markets is reduced for a prolonged period of time, our funding needs may require us to access funding and manage liquidity by other means. these alternatives may include generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, borrowing under certain secured borrowing arrangements, using relationships developed with a variety of fixed income investors, and further managing loan growth and investment opportunities. these alternative means of funding may result in an increase to the overall cost of funds and may not be available under stressed conditions, which would cause us to liquidate a portion of our liquid asset portfolio to meet any funding needs. our credit ratings affect our liquidity position. the rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities issued by keycorp and keybank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors. some of these factors are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy and changes in rating methodologies. changes in any of these factors could impact our ability to maintain our current credit ratings. a rating downgrade of the securities of keycorp or keybank could adversely affect our access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, reducing our ability to generate income. v. market risk a reversal of the u.s. economic recovery and volatile or recessionary conditions in the u.s. or abroad could negatively affect our business or our access to capital markets. a worsening of economic and market conditions, downside shocks, or a return to recessionary economic conditions could result in adverse effects on key and others in the financial services industry. the prolonged low-interest rate environment, despite a generally improving economy, has presented a challenge for the industry, including key, and affects business and financial performance. in particular, we could face some of the following risks, and other unforeseeable risks, in connection with a downturn in the economic and market environment or in the face of downside shocks or a recession, whether in the united states or internationally: 29 table of contents a loss of confidence in the financial services industry and the debt and equity markets by investors, placing pressure on the price of key's common shares or decreasing the credit or liquidity available to key; a decrease in consumer and business confidence levels generally, decreasing credit usage and investment or increasing delinquencies and defaults; a decrease in household or corporate incomes, reducing demand for key's products and services; a decrease in the value of collateral securing loans to key's borrowers or a decrease in the quality of key's loan portfolio, increasing loan charge-offs and reducing key's net income; a decrease in our ability to liquidate positions at acceptable market prices; the extended continuation of the current low-interest rate environment, continuing or increasing downward pressure to our net interest income; an increase in competition or consolidation in the financial services industry; increased concern over and scrutiny of the capital and liquidity levels of financial institutions generally, and those of our transaction counterparties specifically; a decrease in confidence in the creditworthiness of the united states or other governments whose securities we hold; and an increase in limitations on or the regulation of financial services companies like key. we are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect net interest income. our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the federal reserve. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rate controls being applied by the federal reserve, could influence the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities, the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, and the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. as the federal reserve continues to raise interest rates and begins to reverse quantitative easing, the behavior of national money market rate indices, the correlation of consumer deposit rates to financial market interest rates, and the setting of libor rates may not follow historical relationships, which could influence net interest income and net interest margin. moreover, if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, net interest income, and therefore our earnings, would be adversely affected. conversely, earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. uncertainty about the future of libor may adversely affect our business. on july 27, 2017, the chief executive of the united kingdom financial conduct authority (the authority ), which regulates libor, announced that the authority intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor to the administrator of libor after 2021. it is unclear whether and to what extent banks will continue to provide libor submissions to the administrator of libor, and no consensus exists at this time as to what benchmark rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to libor. in the united states, efforts to identify a set of alternative u.s. dollar reference interest rates include proposals by the alternative reference rates committee of the federal reserve and the federal reserve bank of new york. additionally, the international swaps and derivatives association, inc. launched a consultation on technical issues related to new benchmark fallbacks for derivatives contracts that reference certain interbank offered rates, including libor, seeking industry input thereon. at this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of the authority's announcement or other regulatory changes or announcements, any establishment of alternative reference rates, or any other reforms to libor that may be enacted in the united kingdom, the united states, or elsewhere. the uncertainty regarding the future of libor as well as the transition from libor to another benchmark rate or rates could have adverse impacts on floating-rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments that currently use libor as a benchmark rate and, ultimately, adversely affect keycorp's financial condition and results of operations. 30 table of contents our profitability depends upon economic conditions in the geographic regions where we have significant operations and on certain market segments in which we conduct significant business. we have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic regions where our bank branches are located washington; oregon/alaska; rocky mountains; indiana/northwest ohio/michigan; central/southwest ohio; east ohio/western pennsylvania; atlantic; western new york; eastern new york; and new england and additional exposure to geographic regions outside of our branch footprint. the moderate u.s. economic recovery in the various regions where we operate has been uneven, and continued improvement in the overall u.s. economy may not result in similar improvement, or any improvement at all, in the economy of any particular geographic region. adverse conditions in a geographic region such as inflation, unemployment, recession, natural disasters, or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of borrowers in these regions to repay their loans, decrease the value of collateral securing loans made in these regions, or affect the ability of our customers in these regions to continue conducting business with us. additionally, a significant portion of our business activities are concentrated within the commercial real estate, healthcare, and utilities market segments. the profitability of some of these market segments depends upon the health of the overall economy, seasonality, the impact of regulation, and other factors that are beyond our control and may be beyond the control of our customers in these market segments. an economic downturn in one or more geographic regions where we conduct our business, or any significant or prolonged impact on the profitability of one or more of the market segments with which we conduct significant business activity, could adversely affect the demand for our products and services, the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of our deposit funding sources. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties in the financial services industries, and we routinely execute transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. defaults by one or more financial services institutions have led to, and may cause, market-wide liquidity problems and losses. many of our transactions with other financial institutions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be affected when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivatives exposure due us. tax reform is anticipated to have an impact on our tax liabilities, the tax liabilities of our clients, and how we do business. on december 22, 2017, the tcj act was signed into law. this comprehensive tax legislation provides for significant changes to the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, that impact corporate taxation requirements, such as the reduction in the federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective january 1, 2018. the tcj act retains the low-income housing and research and development credits and repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax. other relevant changes include earlier recognition of certain revenue; accelerating expensing of investments in tangible property, including leasing assets; and limiting several deductions such as net business interest, mortgage and home equity interest, certain executive compensation, and meals and entertainment expense. additionally, it doubles the standard deduction, thereby eliminating the need to itemize deductions for a large number of individual taxpayers. key continues to assess the overall impact of the tcj act on the future expected federal income tax obligations of our clients. we expect that key's future federal income tax liabilities will overall benefit from the provisions in the tcj act, as we experienced in 2018. however, we also expect that certain aspects of our business may change over time based on how the provisions in the tcj act may affect our customers and influence how we offer and deliver our products and services in the future. refer to note 13 ( income taxes ) for information on the impact of the tcj act to our 2018 financial results. 31 table of contents vi. reputation risk damage to our reputation could significantly harm our businesses. our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors, and highly-skilled management and employees is affected by our reputation. public perception of the financial services industry has declined as a result of the great recession. we face increased public and regulatory scrutiny resulting from the financial crisis and economic downturn. significant harm to our reputation can also arise from other sources, including employee misconduct, actual or perceived unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum or required standards of service and quality, compliance failures, disclosure of confidential information, significant or numerous failures, interruptions or breaches of our information systems, failure to meet external commitments and goals, and the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors. actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry may have a significant adverse effect on our reputation. we could also suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interests is complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the actual or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, which could adversely affect our businesses. vii. strategic risk we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including, among others, our ability to develop and successfully execute our strategic plans and initiatives. our strategic priorities include growing profitably and maintaining financial strength; effectively managing risk and reward; engaging a high-performing, talented, and diverse workforce; embracing the changes required by our clients and the marketplace; and acquiring, expanding, and retaining targeted client relationships. our inability to execute on or achieve the anticipated outcomes of our strategic priorities may affect how the market perceives us and could impede our growth and profitability. we operate in a highly competitive industry. we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of competitors, some of which are larger and may have more financial resources than us. our competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various geographic regions in which we operate. we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional, national, and global financial services firms. in addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. we expect the competitive landscape of the financial services industry to become even more intense as a result of legislative, regulatory, structural, and technological changes. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain, and build long-term customer relationships based on quality service and competitive prices; our ability to develop competitive products and technologies demanded by our customers, while maintaining our high ethical standards and an effective compliance program and keeping our assets safe and sound; our ability to attract, retain, and develop a highly competent employee workforce; and industry and general economic trends. increased competition in the financial services industry, or our failure to perform in any of these areas, could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. maintaining or increasing our market share depends upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive prices. the continuous, widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services and mobile devices (including smartphones and tablets), requires us to evaluate our product and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services, as well as our distribution of them, to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. new technologies have altered 32 table of contents consumer behavior by allowing consumers to complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. new products allow consumers to maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer loans and deposits and related income generated from those products. the increasing pressure from our competitors, both bank and nonbank, to keep pace and adopt new technologies and products and services requires us to incur substantial expense. we may be unsuccessful in developing or introducing new products and services, modifying our existing products and services, adapting to changing consumer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance or regulatory approval, sufficiently developing or maintaining a loyal customer base, or offering products and services at prices lower than the prices offered by our competitors. these risks may affect our ability to achieve growth in our market share and could reduce both our revenue streams from certain products and services and our revenues from our net interest income. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, retain, motivate, and develop key people. competition for the best people in most of our business activities is ongoing and can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want or need to serve our customers. to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate these employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. our incentive compensation structure and sales practices are subject to review by our regulators, who may identify deficiencies in the structure of or issue additional guidance on our compensation practices, causing us to make changes that may affect our ability to offer competitive compensation to these individuals or that place us at a disadvantage to non-financial service competitors. our ability to attract and retain talented employees may be affected by these developments or any new executive compensation limits and regulations. acquisitions or strategic partnerships may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. acquiring other banks, bank branches, or other businesses involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions or partnerships, including exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired company; diversion of our management's time and attention; significant integration risk with respect to employees, accounting systems, and technology platforms; increased regulatory scrutiny; and, the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition and strategic partnership opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions. as a result, mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values. therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share could occur in connection with any future transaction. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger with first niagara. keycorp consummated its merger with first niagara on august 1, 2016. we continue to focus on realizing growth opportunities from the merger, including, among other things, enhanced revenues, revenue synergies, and an expanded market reach. if we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or may take longer to realize than expected. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in decreases in the amount of expected revenues and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. viii. model risk we rely on quantitative models to manage certain accounting, risk management, capital planning, and treasury functions. we use quantitative models to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating incurred loan and lease losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, managing risk (such as setting reserves), and for 33 table of contents capital planning purposes (including during the ccar capital planning process). our modeling methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses, correlations, and being compatible to the available data. these assumptions have certain limitations and may be incorrect, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect this evolution. even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, use of bad data during development or input into the model during model use, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model's design. as a result, our models may not fully capture or express the risks we face, may suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we may not, or may lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we will operate. if our models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, we may not make appropriate risk management, capital planning, or other business or financial decisions. furthermore, strategies that we employ to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective or fully reliable, and as a result, we may realize losses or other lapses. banking regulators continue to focus on the models used by banks and bank holding companies in their businesses. the failure or inadequacy of a model may result in increased regulatory scrutiny on us or may result in an enforcement action or proceeding against us by one of our regulators. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management in the md&amp;a beginning on page 66 is incorporated herein by reference. 89 table of contentsrisk factors as a financial services organization, we are subject to a number of risks inherent in our transactions and present in the business decisions we make. described below are the primary risks and uncertainties that if realized could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and our access to liquidity. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. our erm program incorporates risk management throughout our organization to identify, understand, and manage the risks presented by our business activities. our erm program identifies key's major risk categories as: credit risk, compliance risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, market risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, and model risk. these risk factors, and other risks we may face, are discussed in more detail in other sections of this report. i. credit risk we have concentrated credit exposure in commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, and commercial leases. as of december 31, 2019 , approximately 72% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans and have a different risk profile. the deterioration of a larger loan or a group of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs. should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the strong recovery in commercial real estate over the past several years, in particular the multifamily property sector, has contributed to a surge in investment and development activity. as a result, property values are elevated and oversupply is a concern in certain markets. substantial deterioration in property market fundamentals could have an impact on our portfolio, with a large portion of our clients active in real estate and specifically multifamily real estate. a correction in the real estate markets could impact the ability of borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. a portion of our commercial real estate loans are construction loans. typically these properties are not fully leased at loan origination; the borrower may require additional leasing through the life of the loan to provide cash flow to support debt service payments. if property market fundamentals deteriorate sharply, the execution of new leases could slow, compromising the borrower's ability to cover the debt service payments. we are subject to the risk of defaults by our loan counterparties and clients. many of our routine transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of counterparties and clients, including financial statements, credit reports and other information. we may also rely on representations of those counterparties, clients, or other third parties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. the inaccuracy of that information or those representations affects our ability to accurately evaluate the default risk of a counterparty or client. given the dodd-frank legislative mandate to centrally clear eligible derivative contracts, we rely on central clearing counterparties to remain open and operationally viable at all times. the possibility of a large member failure or a cybersecurity breach could result in a disruption in this market. 23 table of contents various factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to increase. we maintain an alll (a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense) that represents our estimate of losses based on our evaluation of risks within our existing portfolio of loans. the level of the allowance at december 31, 2019 reflects our ongoing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan and lease loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and incurred losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the alll inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and current trends, all of which may undergo material changes. as described in note 1 ( summary of significant accounting policies ), on january 1, 2020, we adopted asc 326, financial instruments-credit losses, and as such, in determining the alll under cecl, we must estimate expected lifetime credit losses based on information about past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, the softening of certain macroeconomic variables that we are more susceptible to, such as gdp, unemployment, corporate bond rates, household income, 30 year mortgage rates and real estate values, along with new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may indicate the need for an increase in the alll. declining asset prices could adversely affect us. during the great recession, the volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets experienced reached extreme levels. this severe market disruption led to the failure of several substantial financial institutions, which caused the credit markets to constrict and also caused a widespread liquidation of assets. these asset sales, along with asset sales by other leveraged investors, including some hedge funds, rapidly drove down prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded asset classes. asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of certain of the asset categories represented on our balance sheet and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable. although the recovery has been in place for some time, a new recession would likely reverse recent positive trends in asset prices. ii. compliance risk we are subject to extensive government regulation, supervision, and tax legislation. as a financial services institution, we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation, supervision, and tax legislation. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors' funds, the dif, consumers, taxpayers, and the banking system as a whole, not our debtholders or shareholders. these regulations increase our costs and affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to repurchase our common shares, and growth, among other things. keybank and keycorp remain covered institutions under the dodd-frank act's heightened prudential standards and regulations, including its provisions designed to protect consumers from financial abuse. like similarly-situated institutions, key undergoes routine scrutiny from bank supervisors in the examination process and is subject to enforcement of regulations at the federal and state levels, particularly with respect to consumer banking-related practices as well as compliance with aml, bsa and office of foreign assets control efforts. federal rulemaking bodies continue to pass new, or modifications to, significant regulations with upcoming effective dates. there has also been an increase in state legislative activity, particularly in areas such as student lending and privacy. as new privacy-related laws and regulations, such as the california consumer privacy act, are implemented in jurisdictions in which keybank operates, the time and resources needed for us to comply with such laws and regulations, as well as our potential liability for noncompliance and reporting obligations in the case of data breaches, may significantly increase. compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to change our policies, procedures, and technology for information security and segregation of data, which could, among other things, make us more vulnerable to operational failures, and subject us to monetary penalties for breach of such laws and regulations. as a result, some uncertainty remains as to the aggregate impact upon key of significant regulations. changes to existing statutes and regulations, and taxes (including industry-specific taxes and surcharges), or their interpretation or implementation could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. these changes may subject us to additional costs and increase our litigation risk should we fail to appropriately comply. such changes may also 24 table of contents impact consumer behavior, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, affect the investments we make, and change the manner in which we operate. certain federal regulations have been in existence for decades without modification to account for modern banking practices, such as digital delivery of products and services, which can create challenges in execution and in the examination process. emerging technologies, such as cryptocurrencies, could limit keybank's ability to track the movement of funds. keybank's ability to comply with bsa/aml and other regulations is dependent on its ability to improve detection and reporting capabilities and reduce variation in control processes and oversight accountability. additionally, federal banking law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal banking regulators. this enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, fines, or restitution, to issue cease and desist or removal orders, and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and affiliated parties. these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations, for practices determined to be unsafe or unsound, or for practices or acts that are determined to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive. failure to comply with these and other regulations, and supervisory expectations related thereto, may result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions, reputational damage, or restrictions on our business. for more information, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. changes in accounting policies, standards, and interpretations could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. the fasb periodically changes the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of key's financial statements. additionally, those bodies that establish and/or interpret the financial accounting and reporting standards (such as the fasb, sec, and banking regulators) may change prior interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how key records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, key could be required to retroactively apply a new or revised standard, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results. iii. operational risk we are subject to a variety of operational risks. in addition to the other risks discussed in this section, we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes, internal controls, systems, and external events. operational risk includes the risk of fraud by employees, clerical and record-keeping errors, nonperformance by vendors, threats from cyber activity, and computer/telecommunications malfunctions. fraudulent activity has escalated, become more sophisticated, and is ever evolving as there are more options to access financial services. for instance, in our form 8-k filed july 16, 2019, we disclosed that on or about july 9, 2019, we discovered fraudulent activity associated with transactions conducted in the third quarter of 2019 by a business customer of keybank. this fraudulent activity resulted in $139 million of net loan charge-offs in 2019. operational risk also encompasses compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices, or ethical standards, as well as the risk of our noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. we are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business, such as certain loan processing functions. for example, breakdowns or failures of our vendors' systems or employees could be a source of operational risk to us. resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs (including remediation costs), harm to our reputation, inability to secure insurance, litigation, regulatory intervention or sanctions, or foregone business opportunities. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications, information systems (both internal and provided by third parties), and the internet to conduct our business. our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of daily transactions in compliance with legal, regulatory, and internal standards and specifications. in addition, a significant portion of our operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of personal and confidential information, such as the personal information of our customers and clients. these risks may 25 table of contents increase in the future as we continue to increase mobile payments and other internet-based product offerings, expand our internal usage of web/cloud-based products and applications, and maintain and develop new relationships with third and fourth party providers. in addition, our ability to extend protections to customers' information to individual customer devices is limited, especially if the customers willingly provide third parties access to their devices or information. in the event of a failure, interruption, or breach of our information systems or that of a third party that provides services to us or our customers, we may be unable to avoid impact to our customers. such a failure, interruption, or breach could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action, or reputational harm. other u.s. financial service institutions and companies have reported breaches, some severe, in the security of their websites or other systems and several financial institutions, including key, experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks, some of which involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems. other attacks have attempted to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, hold for ransom, or alter or destroy data, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, phishing, cyberattacks, credential stuffing, and other means. to the extent that we use third parties to provide services to our clients, we seek to minimize the risk by performing due diligence and monitoring the third party, but we cannot control all of the risks at these third parties. should an adverse event affecting another company's systems occur, we may not have indemnification or other protection from the other company sufficient to fully compensate us or otherwise protect us or our clients from the consequences. in addition, our customers routinely use key-issued credit and debit cards to pay for transactions conducted with businesses in person and over the internet. if the business's systems that process or store debit or credit card information experience a security breach, our card holders may experience fraud on their card accounts. we may suffer losses associated with such fraudulent transactions, as well as for other costs, such as replacing impacted cards. key also provides card transaction processing services to some merchant customers under agreements we have with payment networks such as mastercard. under these agreements, we may be responsible for certain losses and penalties if one of our merchant customers suffers a data breach. we also face risks related to the increasing interdependence and interconnectivity of financial entities and technology systems. a technology failure, cyberattack or other security breach that significantly compromises the systems of one or more financial parties or service providers could have a material impact on counterparties or market participants, including us. any third-party technology failure, cyberattack, or security breach could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service clients, or otherwise operate our business. to date, none of these efforts have had a material adverse effect on our business or operations or resulted in any material disruption of our operations or material harm to our customers. such security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources/malicious actors, including, but not limited to, persons who constitute an insider threat, who are involved with organized crime, or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. those same parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers, or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients through social engineering, phishing, and other methods. our security systems may not be able to protect our information systems from similar attacks due to the rapid evolution and creation of sophisticated cyberattacks. we are also subject to the risk that a malicious actor or our employees may intercept and/or transmit or otherwise misuse unauthorized confidential or proprietary information. an interception, misuse, or mishandling of personal, confidential, or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action, and reputational harm. over the last few years, several large companies have disclosed that they suffered substantial data security breaches, compromising millions of user accounts and credentials. to date, our losses and costs related to these breaches have not been material, but other similar events in the future could have a significant impact on us. we have incurred and will continue to incur significant expense in an effort to improve the reliability of our systems and their security against external and internal threats. nonetheless, there remains the risk that one or more adverse events might occur. if one does occur, we might not be able to remediate the event or its consequences timely or adequately. we rely on third parties to perform significant operational services for us. third parties perform significant operational services on our behalf. additionally, some of our third parties outsource aspects of their operations to other third parties (commonly referred to as fourth parties ). these parties are subject 26 table of contents to similar risks as key relating to cybersecurity and breakdowns or failures of their own systems, internal processes and controls, or employees. one or more of these third parties may experience a cybersecurity event or operational disruption and, if any such event does occur, it may not be adequately addressed, either operationally or financially, by such third party. certain of these third parties may have limited indemnification obligations or may not have the financial capacity to satisfy their indemnification obligations. financial or operational difficulties of a third party could also impair our operations if those difficulties interfere with such third party's ability to serve us. additionally, some of our outsourcing arrangements are located overseas and, therefore, are subject to risks unique to the regions in which they operate. if a critical third party is unable to meet our needs in a timely manner or if the services or products provided by such third party are terminated or otherwise delayed and if we are not able to identify or develop alternative sources for these services and products quickly and cost-effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, regulatory guidance adopted by federal banking regulators related to how banks select, engage, and manage their third parties affects the circumstances and conditions under which we work with third parties and the cost of managing such relationships. we are subject to claims and litigation, which could result in significant financial liability and/or reputational risk. from time to time, customers, vendors, or other parties may make claims and take legal action against us. we maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment that a loss is probable, estimable, and consistent with applicable accounting guidance. at any given time we have a variety of legal actions asserted against us in various stages of litigation. resolution of a legal action can often take years. whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations, and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting, compliance, and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, or other relief. the number and risk of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years in the financial services industry due to legal changes to the consumer protection laws provided for by the dodd-frank act and the creation of the cfpb. there have also been a number of highly publicized legal claims against financial institutions involving fraud or misconduct by employees, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, and our methods of reducing risk exposure may not be effective. we regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. we also maintain an erm program designed to identify, measure, monitor, report, and analyze our risks. additionally, our internal audit function provides an independent assessment and testing of key's internal controls, policies, and procedures. any system of controls and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well designed, operated, and tested, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. the systems may not work as intended or be circumvented by employees, third parties, or others outside of key. additionally, instruments, systems, and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of market compliance, credit, liquidity, operational, and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. as a result, we may not be able to effectively or fully mitigate our risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk. climate change, severe weather, global pandemics, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other external events could significantly impact our business. natural disasters, including severe weather events of increasing strength and frequency due to climate change, acts of war or terrorism, global pandemics, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business or upon third parties who perform operational services for us. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of 27 table of contents collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in lost revenue, or cause us to incur additional expenses. additionally, potential future shutdowns of portions of the federal government could negatively impact the financial performance of certain customers and could negatively impact customers' future access to certain loan and guaranty programs. iv. liquidity risk capital and liquidity requirements imposed by the dodd-frank act require banks and bhcs to maintain more and higher quality capital and more and higher quality liquid assets than has historically been the case. evolving capital standards resulting from the dodd-frank act and the regulatory capital rules adopted by our regulators have had and will continue to have a significant impact on banks and bhcs, including key. for a detailed explanation of the capital and liquidity rules that became effective for us on a phased-in basis on january 1, 2015, see the section titled regulatory capital requirements under the heading supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. the federal reserve's capital standards require key to maintain more and higher quality capital and could limit our business activities (including lending) and our ability to expand organically or through acquisitions. they could also result in our taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. in addition, the liquidity standards require us to hold high-quality liquid assets, may require us to change our future mix of investment alternatives, and may impact future business relationships with certain customers. additionally, support of liquidity standards may be satisfied through the use of term wholesale borrowings, which tend to have a higher cost than that of traditional core deposits. further, the federal reserve requires bhcs to obtain approval before making a capital distribution, such as paying or increasing dividends, implementing common stock repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. the federal reserve has detailed the processes that bhcs should maintain to ensure they hold adequate capital under severely adverse conditions and have ready access to funding before engaging in any capital activities. these rules could limit key's ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. for more information, see the section titled regulatory capital requirements under the heading supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. recently, certain regulatory rule changes related to tailoring outlined in egrrcpa have been finalized. while marginal relief from certain capital and liquidity standards has been afforded to key (such as relief from lcr compliance), overall capital and liquidity management practices and expectations will remain unchanged for the foreseeable future. moreover, key does not anticipate significant changes to its overall liquidity and capital levels or composition as a result of the final rules. finally, additional guidance and rule-making related to capital planning and stress testing have yet to be finalized and impacts resulting from these potential changes remain unknown. federal agencies' actions to ensure stability of the u.s. financial system may have disruptive effects on us. since 2008, the federal government has taken unprecedented steps to provide stability to and confidence in the financial markets. for example, the federal reserve initiated a round of interest rate cuts designed to maintain economic expansion. in the future, federal agencies may no longer support such initiatives. the discontinuation of such initiatives may have unanticipated or unintended impacts, perhaps severe, on the financial markets. these effects could include higher debt yields, a flatter or steeper slope to the yield curve, or unanticipated changes to quality spread premiums that may not follow historical relationships or patterns. in addition, new initiatives or legislation may not be implemented, or, if implemented, may not be adequate to counter any negative effects of discontinuing programs or, in the event of an economic downturn, to support and stabilize the economy. we rely on dividends by our subsidiaries for most of our funds. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. with the exception of cash that we may raise from debt and equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our funding from dividends by our subsidiaries. dividends 28 table of contents by our subsidiaries are the principal source of funds for the dividends we pay on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal payments on our debt. federal banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that keybank (keycorp's largest subsidiary) can pay. for further information on the regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by keybank, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. in the event keybank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations, or pay dividends on our common or preferred stock. such a situation could result in key losing access to alternative wholesale funding sources. in addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary's liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. we are subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our funding levels. market conditions or other events could negatively affect our access to or the cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, or fund asset growth and new business initiatives at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although we maintain a liquid asset portfolio and have implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet commitments under various economic conditions (including a reduced level of wholesale funding sources), a substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on us. if the cost effectiveness or the availability of supply in these credit markets is reduced for a prolonged period of time, our funding needs may require us to access funding and manage liquidity by other means. these alternatives may include generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, borrowing under certain secured borrowing arrangements, using relationships developed with a variety of fixed income investors, and further managing loan growth and investment opportunities. these alternative means of funding may result in an increase to the overall cost of funds and may not be available under stressed conditions, which would cause us to liquidate a portion of our liquid asset portfolio to meet any funding needs. our credit ratings affect our liquidity position. the rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities issued by keycorp and keybank. the ratings of our long-term debt and other securities are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors. some of these factors are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy and changes in rating methodologies. changes in any of these factors could impact our ability to maintain our current credit ratings. a rating downgrade of the securities of keycorp or keybank could adversely affect our access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, reducing our ability to generate income. v. market risk a reversal of the u.s. economic recovery and volatile or recessionary conditions in the u.s. or abroad could negatively affect our business or our access to capital markets. a worsening of economic and market conditions, downside shocks, or a return to recessionary economic conditions could result in adverse effects on key and others in the financial services industry. the prolonged low-interest rate environment, despite a generally improving economy, has presented a challenge for the industry, including key, and affects business and financial performance. in particular, we could face some of the following risks, and other unforeseeable risks, in connection with a downturn in the economic and market environment or in the face of downside shocks or a recession, whether in the united states or internationally: a loss of confidence in the financial services industry and the debt and equity markets by investors, placing pressure on the price of key's common shares or decreasing the credit or liquidity available to key; a decrease in consumer and business confidence levels generally, decreasing credit usage and investment or increasing delinquencies and defaults; a decrease in household or corporate incomes, reducing demand for key's products and services; a decrease in the value of collateral securing loans to key's borrowers or a decrease in the quality of key's loan portfolio, increasing loan charge-offs and reducing key's net income; 29 table of contents a decrease in our ability to liquidate positions at acceptable market prices; the extended continuation of the current low-interest rate environment, continuing or increasing downward pressure to our net interest income; an increase in competition or consolidation in the financial services industry; increased concern over and scrutiny of the capital and liquidity levels of financial institutions generally, and those of our transaction counterparties specifically; a decrease in confidence in the creditworthiness of the united states or other governments whose securities we hold; and an increase in limitations on or the regulation of financial services companies like key. we are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect net interest income. our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the federal reserve. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rate controls being applied by the federal reserve, could influence the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities, the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, and the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. if the federal reserve raises interest rates and begins to reverse quantitative easing, the behavior of national money market rate indices, the correlation of consumer deposit rates to financial market interest rates, and the setting of libor rates may not follow historical relationships, which could influence net interest income and net interest margin. moreover, if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, net interest income, and therefore our earnings, would be adversely affected. conversely, earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. uncertainty surrounding the transition from libor to an alternate reference rate may adversely affect our business. on july 27, 2017, the chief executive of the united kingdom financial conduct authority (the authority ), which regulates libor, announced that the authority intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor to the administrator of libor after 2021. a transition away from the widespread use of libor to alternative rates is expected to occur before the end of 2021. although no consensus exists at this time as to what benchmark rate or rates may become accepted alternatives to libor, in the united states, the alternative reference rates committee of the federal reserve and the federal reserve bank of new york started in may 2018 to publish the secured overnight finance rate ( sofr ) as an alternative to u.s. dollar libor. sofr is a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight that is collateralized by u.s. treasury securities. while sofr is currently considered a likely alternative to libor, issues remain as to its implementation. accordingly, whether sofr will become an accepted alternative to libor remains uncertain. at this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of the authority's announcement or other regulatory changes or announcements, any establishment of alternative reference rates, or any other reforms to libor that may be enacted in the united kingdom, the united states, or elsewhere. the uncertainty regarding the transition from libor to another benchmark rate or rates could have adverse impacts on floating-rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives, and other financial instruments that currently use libor as a benchmark rate and, ultimately, adversely affect keycorp's financial condition and results of operations. the adverse impact could take various forms and is dependent upon certain factors outside of our control such as: timing of adoption by market forces of a new widely accepted libor replacement, timing of libor cessation, and counterparty acceptance of a new reference rate for both new and existing contracts, among others. additionally, since libor and any replacement reference rate may have significantly different attributes, it is difficult to predict the amount of increased costs associated with implementing the transition to a new reference rate, including costs relative to product changes, systems chang es, compliance and operational oversight costs, and legal expenses, among others. 30 table of contents our profitability depends upon economic conditions in the geographic regions where we have significant operations and on certain market segments in which we conduct significant business. we have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic regions where our bank branches are located washington; oregon/alaska; rocky mountains; indiana/northwest ohio/michigan; central/southwest ohio; east ohio/western pennsylvania; atlantic; western new york; eastern new york; and new england and additional exposure to geographic regions outside of our branch footprint. economic growth in the various regions where we operate has been uneven, and the health of the overall u.s. economy may differ from the economy of any particular geographic region. adverse conditions in a geographic region such as inflation, unemployment, recession, natural disasters, or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of borrowers in these regions to repay their loans, decrease the value of collateral securing loans made in these regions, or affect the ability of our customers in these regions to continue conducting business with us. additionally, a significant portion of our business activities are concentrated within the commercial real estate, healthcare, and utilities market segments. the profitability of some of these market segments depends upon the health of the overall economy, seasonality, the impact of regulation, and other factors that are beyond our control and may be beyond the control of our customers in these market segments. an economic downturn in one or more geographic regions where we conduct our business, or any significant or prolonged impact on the profitability of one or more of the market segments with which we conduct significant business activity, could adversely affect the demand for our products and services, the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of our deposit funding sources. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties in the financial services industries, and we routinely execute transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. defaults by one or more financial services institutions have led to, and may cause, market-wide liquidity problems and losses. many of our transactions with other financial institutions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be affected when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivatives exposure due us. vi. reputation risk damage to our reputation could significantly harm our businesses. our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors, and highly-skilled management and employees is affected by our reputation. public perception of the financial services industry declined as a result of the great recession. we face increased public and regulatory scrutiny resulting from the financial crisis and economic downturn. significant harm to our reputation can also arise from other sources, including employee misconduct, actual or perceived unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum or required standards of service and quality, compliance failures, disclosure of confidential information, significant or numerous failures, interruptions or breaches of our information systems, failure to meet external commitments and goals, including financial, and the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors. actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry may have a significant adverse effect on our reputation. we could also suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interests is complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations, and interests with and among our clients. the actual or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, which could adversely affect our businesses. vii. strategic risk we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. 31 table of contents our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including, among others, our ability to develop and successfully execute our strategic plans and initiatives. our strategic priorities include growing profitably and maintaining financial strength; effectively managing risk and reward; engaging a high-performing, talented, and diverse workforce; embracing the changes required by our clients and the marketplace; and acquiring, expanding, and retaining targeted client relationships. our inability to execute on or achieve the anticipated outcomes of our strategic priorities may affect how the market perceives us and could impede our growth and profitability. we operate in a highly competitive industry. we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of competitors, some of which are larger and may have more financial resources than us. our competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various geographic regions in which we operate. we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional, national, and global financial services firms. in addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks, including large technology companies, to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. we expect the competitive landscape of the financial services industry to become even more intense as a result of legislative, regulatory, structural, and technological changes. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain, and build long-term customer relationships based on quality service and competitive prices; our ability to develop competitive products and technologies demanded by our customers, while maintaining our high ethical standards and an effective compliance program and keeping our assets safe and sound; our ability to attract, retain, and develop a highly competent employee workforce; and industry and general economic trends. increased competition in the financial services industry, or our failure to perform in any of these areas, could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. maintaining or increasing our market share depends upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive prices. the continuous, widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services and mobile devices (such as smartphones and tablets), requires us to evaluate our product and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services, as well as our distribution of them, to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. new technologies have altered consumer behavior by allowing consumers to complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. new products allow consumers to maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer loans and deposits and related income generated from those products. the increasing pressure from our competitors, both bank and nonbank, to keep pace and adopt new technologies and products and services requires us to incur substantial expense. we may be unsuccessful in developing or introducing new products and services, modifying our existing products and services, adapting to changing consumer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance or regulatory approval, sufficiently developing or maintaining a loyal customer base, or offering products and services at prices lower than the prices offered by our competitors. these risks may affect our ability to achieve growth in our market share and could reduce both our revenue streams from certain products and services and our revenues from our net interest income. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, retain, motivate, and develop key people. competition for the best people in most of our business activities is ongoing and can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want or need to serve our customers. additionally, the profile of some of the people we target has changed significantly, causing those with whom we compete for talent to also change and to include nonbanks and large technology companies. to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate these 32 table of contents employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. our incentive compensation structure and sales practices are subject to review by our regulators, who may identify deficiencies in the structure of or issue additional guidance on our compensation practices, causing us to make changes that may affect our ability to offer competitive compensation to these individuals or that place us at a disadvantage to non-financial service competitors. our ability to attract and retain talented employees may be affected by these developments or any new executive compensation limits and regulations. acquisitions or strategic partnerships may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. acquiring other banks, bank branches, or other businesses involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions or partnerships, including exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the acquired company; diversion of our management's time and attention; significant integration risk with respect to employees, accounting systems, and technology platforms; increased regulatory scrutiny; and, the possible loss of key employees and customers of the acquired company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition and strategic partnership opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions. as a result, mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values. therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share could occur in connection with any future transaction. viii. model risk we rely on quantitative models to manage certain accounting, risk management, capital planning, and treasury functions. we use quantitative models to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating incurred loan and lease losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, managing risk (such as setting reserves), and for capital planning purposes (including during the capital stress testing process). our modeling methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses, correlations, and being compatible to the available data. these assumptions have certain limitations and may be incorrect, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect this evolution. even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, use of bad data during development or input into the model during model use, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model's design. as a result, our models may not fully capture or express the risks we face, may suggest that we have sufficient capital when we may not, or may lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we will operate. if our models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, we may not make appropriate risk management, capital planning, or other business or financial decisions. furthermore, strategies that we employ to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective or fully reliable, and as a result, we may realize losses or other lapses. banking regulators continue to focus on the models used by banks and bank holding companies in their businesses. the failure or inadequacy of a model may result in increased regulatory scrutiny on us or may result in an enforcement action or proceeding against us by one of our regulators. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management in the md&amp;a beginning on page 66 is incorporated herein by reference. 89 table of contentsrisk factors an investment in our common shares is subject to risks inherent to our business, ownership of our equity securities and our industry. described below are certain risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could have a material and adverse effect on keycorp. before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. although we have significant risk management policies, procedures and practices aimed at mitigating these risks, uncertainties may nevertheless impair our business operations. this report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or access to liquidity and/or credit could be materially and adversely affected ( material adverse effect on us ). if this were to happen, the value of our securities common shares, series a preferred stock, series b preferred stock and our trust preferred securities could decline, perhaps significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business certain industries, including the financial services industry, are more significantly affected by certain economic factors such as unemployment and real estate asset values. should the improvement of these economic factors lag the improvement of the overall economy, or not occur, we could be adversely affected. should the stabilization of the u.s. economy lead to a general economic recovery, the improvement of certain economic factors, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and rents, may nevertheless continue to lag behind the overall economy, or not occur at all. these economic factors typically affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly. for example, improvements in commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic recovery by twelve to eighteen months. our clients include entities active in these industries. furthermore, financial services companies, with a substantial lending business, like ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to market risks, including in the commercial real estate sector. should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market further deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the fundamentals within the commercial real estate sector remain weak, under continuing pressure by reduced asset values, rising vacancies and reduced rents. commercial real estate values peaked in the fall of 2007, after gaining approximately 30% since 2005 and 90% since 2001. according to moody real estate analytics, llc commercial property index, at november 30, 2009, commercial real estate values were down 43% from their peak. many of our commercial real estate loans were originated between 2005 and 2007. a portion of our commercial real estate loans are construction loans. these properties are typically not fully leased at the origination of the loan, but the borrower may be reliant upon additional leasing through the life of the loan to provide cash flow to support debt service payments. weak economic conditions typically slow the execution of new leases; such conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. as a result of these factors, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space are expected to continue to rise in 2010. increased vacancies could result in rents falling further over the next several quarters. the combination of these factors could result in further weakening in the fundamentals underlying the commercial real estate market. should these fundamentals continue to deteriorate as a result of further decline in asset values and the instability of rental income, it could have a material adverse effect on us. declining asset prices could adversely affect us. over the last six quarters, the volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets have experienced reached extreme levels. the market dislocations led to the failure of several substantial financial institutions, causing widespread liquidation of assets and further constraining credit markets. these asset sales, along with asset sales by 11 table of contents other leveraged investors, including some hedge funds, rapidly drove down prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded asset classes. asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of many of the asset categories represented on our balance sheet, and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable. this could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to credit risk. there are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading activities. these risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate. increases in interest rates and/or further weakening of economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. as of december 31, 2009, approximately 71% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. we closely monitor and manage risk concentrations and utilize various portfolio management practices to limit excessive concentrations when it is feasible to do so; however, our loan portfolio still contains a number of commercial loans with relatively large balances. we also do business with environmentally sensitive industries and in connection with the development of brownfield sites that provide appropriate business opportunities. we monitor and evaluate our borrowers for compliance with environmental-related covenants, which include covenants requiring compliance with applicable law. we take steps to mitigate risks; however, should political or other changes make it difficult for certain of our customers to maintain compliance with applicable covenants, our credit quality could be adversely affected. the deterioration of one or more of any of our loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which could result in net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. we also are subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment against us of civil money or other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on us. the credit ratings of keycorp and keybank are important in order to maintain liquidity. although keycorp and keybank long-term debt is currently rated investment-grade by the major rating agencies, the ratings of key long-term debt, series a preferred stock and certain of its other securities have been downgraded and/or put on negative outlook by those major rating agencies. these rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of keycorp and keybank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities are based on a number of factors, including key financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors, some of which are not entirely within key control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy. in light of the difficulties in the financial services industry, the financial markets and the economy, there can be no assurance that key will maintain its current ratings. if the securities of keycorp and/or keybank suffer additional ratings downgrades, such downgrades could adversely affect access to liquidity and could significantly increase key cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to key, thereby curtailing its business operations and reducing its ability to generate income. further downgrades of the credit ratings of key securities, particularly if they are below investment-grade, could have a material adverse effect on us. there can be no assurance that the eesa, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, and other initiatives undertaken by the united states government to restore liquidity and stability to the u.s. financial system will help stabilize the u.s. financial system. the eesa was enacted and signed into law by president bush in october 2008 in response to the ongoing financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. pursuant to the eesa, the u.s. treasury has authority to, among other things, purchase up to 12 table of contents $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities, preferred equity and warrants, and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the u.s. financial markets. under its authority provided by eesa, the u.s. treasury established the cpp, and the core provisions of the financial stability plan. there can be no assurance regarding the actual impact that the eesa, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 ( recovery bill ), or other programs and initiatives undertaken by the u.s. government will have on the financial markets. the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability experienced in late 2008 and through the third quarter of 2009 may return or persist. regional financial institutions have faced difficulties issuing debt in the fixed-income debt markets; these conditions could return and pose continued difficulties for the issuance of both medium term note and long-term subordinated note issuances. the failure of the eesa or other government programs to sufficiently contribute to financial market stability and put the u.s. economy on a path for an economic recovery could result in a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on us. in the event that any of the various forms of turmoil experienced in the financial markets continue, or, as the case may be, return or become exacerbated, there may be a material adverse effect on us from (1) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets, (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our transaction counterparties specifically, (3) limitations resulting from further governmental action to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (4) recessionary conditions that return, are deeper, or last longer than currently anticipated. the u.s. treasury may require us to raise additional capital that would likely be dilutive to our common shares. in our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2008, we reported that, under the u.s. treasury capital assessment program ( cap ), we were required to participate in the supervisory capital assessment program ( scap ) to determine whether we would be required to raise additional capital. as announced on may 7, 2009, under the scap assessment, we were required to increase the amount of our tier 1 common equity by $1.8 billion within six months. we generated in excess of the $1.8 billion of additional tier 1 common equity required by the scap results. nevertheless, there can be no assurance that our regulators, including the u.s. treasury and the federal reserve board, will not conduct additional stress test capital assessments outside of typical examination cycles, such as the scap, and/or require us to generate additional capital, including tier 1 common equity, in the future in the event of further negative economic circumstances, or in order for us to redeem our series b preferred stock held by the u.s. treasury under the cpp. any additional capital that keycorp generates in the future, whether through exchange offers, underwritten offerings of common shares, or other public or private transactions, would be dilutive to common shareholders and may reduce the market price of our common shares. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. the potential issuance of a significant amount of common shares or equity convertible into our common shares to a private investor or group of private investors may be dilutive and cause the market price of our common shares to decline. having a significant shareholder may make some future transactions more difficult or perhaps impossible to complete without the support of such shareholder. the interests of the significant shareholder may not coincide with our interests or the interests of other shareholders. there can be no assurance that any significant shareholder will exercise its influence in our best interests as opposed to its best interests as a significant shareholder. a significant shareholder may make it difficult to approve certain transactions even if they are supported by the other shareholders, which may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. issuing a significant amount of common equity to a private investor may result in a change in control of keycorp under regulatory standards and contractual terms. should keycorp obtain a significant amount of additional capital from any individual private investor, a change of control could occur under applicable regulatory standards and contractual terms. such change of control may trigger notice, approval and/or other regulatory requirements in many states and jurisdictions in which we operate. we are a party to various contracts and other agreements that may require us to obtain consents from our respective contract counterparties in the event of a change in control. the failure to obtain any required regulatory consents or approvals or contractual consents due to a change in control may have a material adverse effect on us. 13 table of contents should we decide to repurchase the u.s. treasury series b preferred stock, future issuance(s) of common shares may be necessary, which, if necessary, would likely result in significant dilution to holders of keycorp common shares. in conjunction with any repurchase of the series b preferred stock issued to the u.s. treasury, we may elect or be required by our regulators to increase the amount of our tier 1 common equity through the sale of additional common shares. in addition, in connection with the u.s. treasury purchase of the series b preferred stock, pursuant to a letter agreement dated november 14, 2008, and the securities purchase agreement standard terms, the u.s. treasury received a warrant to purchase 35,244,361 of our common shares at an initial per share exercise price of $10.64, subject to adjustment, which expires ten years from the issuance date, and we have agreed to provide the u.s. treasury with registration rights covering the warrant and the underlying common shares. the terms of the warrant provide for a procedure, upon repurchase of the series b preferred stock, to determine the value of the warrant, and purchase the warrant, within approximately 40 days of the repurchase of the series b preferred stock. however, even if we were to redeem the series b preferred stock, there is no assurance that this warrant will be fully retired and, therefore, that it will not be exercised, prior to its expiration date. the issuance of additional common shares as a result of the exercise of the warrant the u.s. treasury holds would likely dilute the ownership interest of keycorp existing common shareholders. the terms of the warrant provide that, if we issue common shares or securities convertible or exercisable into or exchangeable for common shares at a price that is less than 90% of the market price of such shares on the last trading day preceding the date of the agreement to sell such shares, the number and the per share price of common shares to be purchased pursuant to the warrant will be adjusted pursuant to its terms. we may also choose to issue securities convertible into or exercisable for our common shares and such securities may themselves contain anti-dilution provisions. such anti-dilution adjustment provisions may have a further dilutive effect on other holders of our common shares. there can be no assurance that we will not in the future determine that it is advisable, or that we will not encounter circumstances where we determine that it is necessary, to issue additional common shares, securities convertible into or exchangeable for common shares or common-equivalent securities to fund strategic initiatives or other business needs or to build additional capital. the market price of our common shares could decline as a result of such exchange offerings, as well as other sales of a large block of our common shares or similar securities in the market thereafter, or the perception that such sales could occur. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. we may not be permitted to repurchase the u.s. treasury tarp cpp investment if and when we request approval to do so. we have generated in excess of the $1.8 billion in additional tier 1 common equity required by the scap. while it is our plan to repurchase the series b preferred stock as soon as practicable, in order to repurchase such securities, in whole or in part, we must establish to our regulators satisfaction that we have satisfied all of the conditions to repurchase and must obtain the approval of the federal reserve and the u.s. treasury. there can be no assurance that we will be able to repurchase the u.s. treasury tarp investment in our series b preferred stock. in addition to limiting our ability to return capital to our shareholders, the u.s. treasury investment could limit our ability to retain key executives and other key employees, and limit our ability to develop business opportunities. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. during 2009, disruptions and volatility in financial markets adversely affected keycorp. these factors could continue to affect keycorp. our actions in response to these financial market disruptions may not be sufficient to mitigate the effects of market uncertainties and other risks presented. the capital and credit markets, including the fixed income markets, experienced extreme volatility and disruption between july 2007 and october 2009. the disruptions in the capital and credit markets reached unprecedented levels during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. as a result of the severe economic conditions, in 2009, we, and many financial institutions similar to us, generated and raised tier 1 common equity through exchanges of existing trust preferred securities or preferred equity for common stock, at-the-market offerings of common stock or underwritten offerings of common stock, or a combination of the foregoing. until the middle of the third quarter of 2009, regional financial institutions continued to encounter difficulties in the fixed income markets. 14 table of contents while most economists generally agree that the u.s. economy has stabilized, it remains unclear whether a sustainable recovery is underway. uncertainties in the financial markets continue to present significant challenges, particularly for the financial services industry. as a financial services company, our operations and financial condition are significantly affected by general economic and market conditions. during 2009, the continued disruptions in the financial markets caused markdowns and/or losses by financial institutions from trading, hedging and other market activities, resulting in reduced earnings for many financial institutions. additionally, financial institutions with lending operations faced substantial loan losses due to high unemployment, reduced real estate asset values and 1.43 million bankruptcy filings in 2009, representing an increase of 32% from 2008. unemployment at december 31, 2009 was above 10%, up from 7.4% at december 31, 2008. we were similarly affected by these factors. during 2009, we increased our provision for loan losses by $1.622 billion or 106% in response to the continued deterioration in our loan portfolios resulting from the economic decline. during 2009, we also recorded noncash accounting charges of $268 million due to intangible assets impairment resulting from a decline in the fair value of our national banking unit, reflecting the extreme weakness in financial markets, and our decisions to wind down the operations of austin capital management ltd. ( austin ) and cease conducting our business in the commercial vehicle and office equipment leasing markets. it is difficult to predict how long these challenging economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether our actions will effectively mitigate these extreme external factors. furthermore, the models that we use to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure may become less predictive due to fundamental changes in the u.s. economy. accordingly, these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to interest rate risk. our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the federal reserve board. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. we use simulation analysis to produce an estimate of interest rate exposure based on assumptions and judgments related to balance sheet changes, customer behavior, new products, new business volume, product pricing, competitor behavior, the behavior of market interest rates and anticipated hedging activities. simulation analysis involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires estimates of future risks and trends. accordingly, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those derived in simulation analysis due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, actual hedging strategies employed, changes in balance sheet composition, and the possible effects of unanticipated or unknown events. although we believe we have implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including simulation analysis and the use of interest rate derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to other market risk. traditionally, market factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, changes in the equity markets and changes in the financial soundness of bond insurers, sureties and other unrelated financial companies have the potential to affect current market values of financial instruments. during 2008, market events demonstrated this to an extreme. between july 2007 and october 2009, conditions in the fixed income markets, specifically the wider credit spreads 15 table of contents over benchmark u.s. treasury securities for many fixed income securities, caused significant volatility in the market values of loans, securities, and certain other financial instruments that are held in our trading or held-for-sale portfolios. opportunities to minimize the adverse affects of market changes are not always available. it is possible that such volatility and adverse effects will continue over a prolonged period of time and/or worsen over time. it is not possible for us to predict whether there will be further substantial changes in the financial markets that could have a material adverse effect on us. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services to institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. during 2008, key incurred $54 million of derivative-related charges as a result of market disruption caused by the failure of lehman brothers. another example of losses related to this type of risk is the losses associated with the bernie madoff ponzi scheme ( madoff ponzi scheme ). as a result of the madoff ponzi scheme, our investment subsidiary, austin, determined that its funds had suffered investment losses up to $186 million. following lehman brothers failure, we took several steps to better measure, monitor, and mitigate our counterparty risks and to reduce these exposures. this includes daily position measurement and reporting, the use of scenario analysis and stress testing, replacement cost estimation, risk mitigation strategies, and market feedback validation. defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. it is not possible to anticipate all of these risks and it is not feasible to mitigate these risks completely. accordingly, there is no assurance that losses from such risks would not have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to liquidity risk. market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although we have implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on us. certain credit markets that we participate in and rely upon as sources of funding were significantly disrupted and volatile from the third quarter of 2007 through the third quarter of 2009. these conditions in the recent past increase our liquidity risk exposure, and could return. while the credit markets have improved, the availability of credit and the cost of funds remain tight and more expensive than typical for an economy with a growing gross domestic product. part of our strategy to reduce liquidity risk involves promoting customer deposit growth, exiting certain noncore lending businesses, diversifying our funding base, maintaining a liquid asset portfolio, and strengthening our capital base to reduce our need for debt as a source of liquidity. many of these disrupted markets are showing signs of recovery. nonetheless, if further market disruption or other factors reduce the cost effectiveness and/or the availability of supply in the credit markets for a prolonged period of time, we may need to expand the utilization of unsecured wholesale funding instruments, or use other potential means of accessing funding and managing liquidity such as generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, purchasing deposits from other banks, borrowing under certain secured wholesale facilities, and utilizing relationships developed with fixed income investors in a variety of markets domestic, european and canadian as well as increased management of loan growth and investment opportunities and other management tools. there can 16 table of contents be no assurance that these alternative means of funding will be available; under certain stressed conditions experienced during the liquidity crisis, some of these alternative means of funding were not available. should these forms of funding become unavailable, it is unclear what impact, given current economic conditions, unavailability of such funding would have on us. a deep and prolonged disruption in the markets could have the effect of significantly restricting the accessibility of cost effective capital and funding, which could have a material adverse effect on us. various factors may cause our allowance for loan losses to increase. we maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents our estimate of losses within the existing portfolio of loans. the allowance is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. the level of the allowance reflects our ongoing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions, and unexpected losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, the stagnation of certain economic indicators that we are more susceptible to, such as unemployment and real estate values, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. in addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management. in addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses ( i.e. , if the loan allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan loss provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses, should they become necessary, would result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to operational risk. like all businesses, we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. operational risk also encompasses compliance (legal) risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards. we are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the affect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business, such as certain loan processing functions. additionally, some of our outsourcing arrangements are located overseas and therefore are subject to political risks unique to the regions in which they operate. although we seek to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls, resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation or foregone opportunities, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we operate. our success depends primarily on economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. we have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic areas where our branches are located the northwest, the rocky mountains, the great lakes and the northeast as well as potential exposure to geographic areas outside of our branch footprint. for example, the nonowner-occupied properties segment of our commercial real estate portfolio has exposures in several markets outside of our footprint. real estate values and cash flows have been negatively affected on a national basis due to weak economic conditions. certain markets, such as florida, southern california, phoenix, arizona, and las vegas, nevada, have experienced more significant deterioration. the delinquencies, nonperforming loans and charge-offs that we have experienced have been more heavily weighted to these specific markets. as a result of these and other economic factors, we recently increased the provision for loan losses. the regional economic conditions in areas in which we conduct our business have an impact on the demand 17 table of contents for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. a significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, an act of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors, such as severe declines in the value of homes and other real estate, could also impact these regional economies and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. we operate in a highly competitive industry and market areas. we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. such competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various markets in which we operate. we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional and national financial services firms. in recent years, while the breadth of the institutions that we compete with has increased, competition has intensified as a result of consolidation efforts. during 2009, competition continued to intensify as the challenges of the liquidity crisis and market disruption led to further redistribution of deposits and certain banking assets to stronger and larger financial institutions. we expect this trend to continue. the competitive landscape was also affected by the conversion of traditional investment banks to bank holding companies during the liquidity crisis due to the access it provides to government-sponsored sources of liquidity. the financial services industry competitive landscape could become even more intensified as a result of legislative, regulatory, structural and technological changes and continued consolidation. also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; our ability to expand our market position; the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; our ability to attract and retain talented executives and relationship managers; and industry and general economic trends. failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. these regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. it is likely that there will be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regime in light of recent events affecting the financial services industry. it is not possible to predict the scope of such changes or their potential impact on our results of operations. for example, president obama announced in january 2010 a reform proposal to: (1) limit the scope of financial institutions and ensure that a bank will not own, invest in or sponsor a hedge fund or a private equity fund, or have proprietary trading operations unrelated to its service of its customers for its own profit; and (2) limit further consolidation of the financial sector. this proposal sometimes referred to by the media as the volcker rule 18 table of contents aims to place limits on the growth of market share at the largest financial firms, supplementing the existing caps on market share of deposits. it is impossible to predict whether president obama proposal for financial regulatory reform will succeed or what the impact of any financial reform proposal would be on us or the banking industry generally. if this financial reform proposal is adopted in some form, it may, for example, limit the scope of financial services and investments that financial institutions with commercial banks may invest in, impose additional capital and liquidity standards, and/or limit the size of financial institutions in order to avoid any moral hazard associated with financial institutions deemed to big to fail. these types of reform could limit our ability to conduct certain of our businesses, such as funds that are part of our investment adviser subsidiary, victory capital management inc., or funds sponsored and advised by, and investments in private equity funds made by, our principal investing line of business, which could require us to divest or spin-off certain of our business units and private equity investments. furthermore, as part of the scap, key was identified as a financial institution that was one of nineteen firms that collectively hold two-thirds of the banking assets and more than one-half of the loans in the u.s. banking system. while it is difficult to predict if regulatory reform will occur and the extent or nature of regulatory reform, should regulatory reform limit the size of the scap banks, our ability to pursue opportunities to achieve growth through the acquisition of other banks or deposits could be affected, which, in turn could have a material adverse effect on us. changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies; changes in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies; and/or continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, and could have a material adverse effect on us. such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products that we may offer and/or increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. failure to appropriately comply with laws, regulations or policies (including internal policies and procedures designed to prevent such violations) could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on us. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. we regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on us. we rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our funds. keycorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. with the exception of cash raised from debt and equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our cash flow from dividends from our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common shares and interest and principal on our debt. federal banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that keybank (keycorp largest subsidiary) and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay to keycorp. during 2008 and 2009, keybank did not pay any dividends to keycorp; nonbank subsidiaries paid keycorp $.8 million in dividends during 2009. as of the close of business on december 31, 2009, keybank would not have been permitted to pay dividends to keycorp without prior regulatory approval since the bank had a net loss of $1.151 billion for 2009 and a net loss of $1.161 billion for 2008. for further information on the regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by keybank see supervision and regulation dividend restrictions of this report. also, keycorp right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. in the event keybank is unable to pay dividends to keycorp, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common shares. the inability to receive dividends from keybank could have a material adverse effect on us. 19 table of contents our earnings and/or financial condition may be affected by changes in accounting principles and in tax laws, or the interpretation of them. changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on us. although these changes may not have an economic impact on our business, they could affect our ability to attain targeted levels for certain performance measures. like all businesses, we are subject to tax laws, rules and regulations. changes to tax laws, rules and regulations, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax laws, rules and regulations by the internal revenue service or other governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. such changes could subject us to additional costs, among other things. failure to appropriately comply with tax laws, rules and regulations could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on us. additionally, we conduct quarterly assessments of our deferred tax assets. the carrying value of these assets is dependent upon earnings forecasts and prior period earnings, among other things. a significant change in our assumptions could affect the carrying value of our deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us. potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; potential disruption to our business; potential diversion of our management time and attention; the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; difficulty in estimating the value (including goodwill) of the target company; difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and derivatives of the target company; and potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. as a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on us. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want and/or need. in order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, our performance, including our competitive position, could suffer, and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. although we maintain employment agreements with certain key employees, and have incentive compensation 20 table of contents plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse effect on us because of the loss of the employee skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel for our talented executives and/or relationship managers. pursuant to the standardized terms of the cpp, among other things, we agreed to institute certain restrictions on the compensation of certain senior executive management positions that could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified senior executives. other restrictions may also be imposed under the recovery bill or other legislation or regulations. our ability to attract and/or retain talented executives and/or relationship managers may be affected by these developments or any new executive compensation limits, and such restrictions could have a material adverse effect on us. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. we continually encounter technological change. the financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. our largest competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to claims and litigation. from time to time, customers and/or vendors may make claims and take legal action against us. we maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment of the claims. whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry. there have also been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. any financial liability for which we have not adequately maintained reserves, and/or any reputation damage from such claims and legal actions, could have a material adverse effect on us. 21 table of contents severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. although we have established disaster recovery plans and procedures, and monitor for significant environmental effects on our properties or our investments, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on us. risks associated with our common shares our issuance of securities to the u.s. treasury may limit our ability to return capital to our shareholders and is dilutive to our common shares. if we are unable to redeem such preferred shares, the dividend rate increases substantially after five years. in connection with our sale of $2.5 billion of the series b preferred stock to the u.s. treasury in conjunction with its cpp, we also issued a warrant to purchase 35,244,361 of our common shares at an exercise price of $10.64. the number of shares was determined based upon the requirements of the cpp, and was calculated based on the average market price of our common shares for the 20 trading days preceding approval of our issuance (which was also the basis for the exercise price of $10.64). the terms of the transaction with the u.s. treasury include limitations on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common shares. for three years after the issuance or until the u.s. treasury no longer holds any series b preferred stock, we will not be able to increase our dividends above the level of our quarterly dividend declared during the third quarter of 2008 ($0.1875 per common share on a quarterly basis) nor repurchase any of our common shares or preferred stock without, among other things, u.s. treasury approval or the availability of certain limited exceptions , e.g ., purchases in connection with our benefit plans. furthermore, as long as the series b preferred stock issued to the u.s. treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common shares, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. these restrictions, combined with the dilutive impact of the warrant, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares, and, as a result, they could have a material adverse effect on us. unless we are able to redeem the series b preferred stock during the first five years, the dividend payments on this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% ($125 million annually) to 9% ($225 million annually). depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact our liquidity and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on us. you may not receive dividends on the common shares. holders of our common shares are only entitled to receive such dividends as the board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. furthermore, our common shareholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. as of february 24, 2010, there were 2,904,839 shares of keycorp series a preferred stock with a liquidation preference of $100 per share issued and outstanding and 25,000 shares of the series b preferred stock with a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share issued and outstanding. in july 2009, we reduced the quarterly dividend on our common shares to $0.01 per share. we do not expect to increase the quarterly dividend above $0.01 for the foreseeable future. we could decide to eliminate our common shares dividend altogether. furthermore, as long as our series a preferred stock and the series b preferred stock are outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common shares, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. in addition, prior to november 14, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the series b preferred stock or the u.s. treasury has transferred all of the series b preferred stock to third parties, the consent of the u.s. treasury will be required for us to, among other things, increase our common shares dividend above $.1875 except in limited circumstances. this could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. also, keycorp is a bank holding company and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal 22 table of contents regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the federal reserve board regarding capital adequacy and dividends. in addition, terms of keybank outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on keycorp capital stock, including its common shares, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if an event of default has occurred and is continuing under the applicable indenture, if we are in default with respect to a guarantee payment under the guarantee of the related capital securities or if we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. keycorp was required to conduct stress tests pursuant to the u.s. treasury cap and could be required to conduct additional stress tests and raise additional capital that would be dilutive to our common shares and may limit our ability to return capital to our shareholders. on february 25, 2009, the u.s. treasury announced preliminary details of the cap component of its financial stability plan. the cap was implemented to ensure the continued ability of u.s. financial institutions to lend to creditworthy borrowers in the event of a weaker than expected economic environment and larger than expected potential losses. following the conduct of such stress tests, our regulators determined that we needed to generate an additional $1.8 billion of tier 1 common equity. we completed various capital transactions, generating in excess of $1.8 billion of additional tier 1 common equity. should the u.s. treasury and our banking regulators determine that additional stress testing is necessary, or in order to receive approval to redeem our series b preferred, we may need to raise additional capital. should this happen, we may only have a limited window to raise that capital. should we need to issue additional equity capital, it would be dilutive to our common shares and may limit our ability to return capital to our shareholders. these factors may have a material adverse effect on us. our share price can be volatile. share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common shares when you want and at prices you find attractive. our share price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; recommendations by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our business; changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the market for mortgage-related securities; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; perceptions of us and/or our competitors in the marketplace; new technology used, or products or services offered, by competitors; significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments entered into by us or our competitors; failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; our past and future dividend practices; changes in governmental regulations affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; changes in global financial markets, economies and market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility; 23 table of contents geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and the occurrence or nonoccurrence, as appropriate, of any circumstance described in these risk factors. general market fluctuations, market disruption, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our share price to decrease regardless of operating results. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. an investment in our common shares is not an insured deposit. our common shares are not a bank deposit and, therefore, are not insured against loss by the fdic, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. investment in our common shares is inherently risky for the reasons described in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common shares in any company. as a result, if you acquire our common shares, you may lose some or all of your investment. our articles of incorporation and regulations, as well as certain banking laws, may have an anti-takeover effect. provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. the combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. risks associated with our industry difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry, business and results of operations. the dramatic deterioration experienced in the housing market led to weakness across geographies, industries, and ultimately the broad economy. over the last 30 months, the housing market experienced falling home prices, increasing foreclosures; unemployment and under-employment rose significantly; and weakened commercial real estate fundamentals negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, and commercial and investment banks. the resulting write-downs to assets of financial institutions have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection. it is not possible to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether our actions and government remediation efforts will effectively mitigate these factors. accordingly, the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, continued deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. as a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions, we may face the following risks, including, but not limited to: increased regulation of our industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations imposed in connection with the eesa, the recovery bill or other government initiatives. compliance with such regulation will likely increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. impairment of our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite customers become less predictive of future behaviors due to fundamental changes in economic conditions. 24 table of contents the process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. in a highly uncertain economic environment, these processes may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and, in turn, may impact the reliability of our evaluation of our credit risk and exposure. our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in securitization funding transactions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. increased intensity of competition in the financial services industry due to: (i) the continued trend of mergers of financial institutions with stronger and larger financial institutions and the redistribution of fdic-insured deposits and certain banking assets through the fdic least-cost resolution process, and (ii) the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. we expect competition to intensify as a result of these changes to the competitive landscape. should competition in the financial services industry continue to intensify, our ability to market products and services may be adversely affected. we will be required to pay significantly higher fdic premiums in the future because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the fdic and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. we are also likely to be required to pay other fees necessary to support the eesa, the recovery bill and other government efforts. financial institutions may be required, regardless of risk, to pay taxes or other fees to the u.s. treasury. such taxes or other fees could be designed to reimburse the u.s. treasury for the many government programs and initiatives it has undertaken as part of its economic stimulus efforts. our ability to attract key executives and/or other key employees may be hindered as a result of executive compensation limits as a result of our participation in the cpp and/or regulations that may be issued by the u.s. treasury or other regulators pursuant to its authority under the eesa or the recovery bill. furthermore, we may lose key executives and/or other key employees as a result of such limitations. financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. we may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse effect on us. consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete through alternative methods financial transactions that historically have involved banks. for example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. the loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management of the financial review section of keycorp 2009 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto) is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors an investment in our common shares or other securities is subject to risks inherent to our business, ownership of our securities and our industry. described below are certain risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could have a material and adverse effect on us. before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. although we have significant risk management policies, procedures and practices aimed at mitigating these risks, uncertainties may nevertheless impair our business operations. this report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or access to liquidity and/or credit could be materially and adversely affected ( material adverse effect on us ). if this were to happen, the value of our securities common shares, series a preferred stock, series b preferred stock, trust preferred securities and debt securities could decline, perhaps significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business our credit ratings affect our liquidity position. on november 1, 2010, moody announced a ratings downgrade for ten large u.s. regional banks, including keybank, previously identified as benefiting from systemic support. ratings for keybank short-term borrowings, senior long-term debt and subordinated debt were downgraded one notch from p-1 to p-2, a2 to a3, and a3 to baa1, respectively. in conjunction with the ratings changes, moody updated their ratings outlook on these ratings from negative to stable. the new ratings have breached minimum thresholds established by moody in connection with the securitizations that we service, and impact the ability of keybank to hold certain escrow deposit balances related to commercial mortgage securitizations serviced by us and rated by moody s. these escrow deposit balances range from $1.50 to $1.85 billion. since the downgrade, keybank has been in discussions with moody regarding an alternative investment vehicle for these funds that would be acceptable to moody and maintain the funds at keybank. subsequent to moody announcement that was issued on january 19, 2011, moody indicated to keybank that these escrow deposit balances associated with our mortgage servicing operations will need to be moved to another financial institution which meets the minimum ratings threshold within the first quarter of 2011. as a result of this decision by moody s, keybank has determined that moving these escrow deposit balances results in an immaterial impairment of these mortgage servicing assets. keybank expects to have ample liquidity reserves to offset the loss of these deposits and expects to remain in a strong liquidity position. nevertheless, the ratings downgrade could decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us. 11 table of contents our rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of keycorp and keybank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors, some of which are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy. in light of the difficulties in the financial services industry, the financial markets and the economy, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. if the securities of keycorp and/or keybank suffer additional ratings downgrades, such downgrades could adversely affect our access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, thereby reducing our ability to generate income. further downgrades of the credit ratings of securities, particularly if they are below investment-grade, could have a material adverse effect on us. the federal reserve has acknowledged the possibility of further recession and deflation. should this occur, the financial services industry and our business could be adversely affected. despite the conclusion of the recession, the recovery of the u.s. economy continues to progress slowly; consumer confidence remains low, unemployment remains high at 9.4% for december 2010, and the housing market remains an important downside risk, with prices expected to fall through much of this year. given the concerns about the u.s. economy, u.s. employers continue to approach hiring with caution, and as a result unemployment may rise. furthermore, the federal open market committee communicated in its december 2010 statement that measures of underlying inflation have continued to trend downward. monetary and fiscal policy measures, including the recent legislation formalizing the tax compromise between u.s. congress and senate members (the tax compromise ), aimed at lowering the risk of a double-dip recession may be insufficient to strengthen the recovery, return unemployment to lower levels, and restore stability to the financial markets. furthermore, federal reserve chairman bernanke and various governments in europe have acknowledged the need to commence a shift from fiscal stimulus efforts to fiscal constraint to reduce government deficits. the recent tax compromise indicates that the shift in u.s. fiscal policy will be postponed, but only temporarily. a coordinated shift from fiscal stimulus to fiscal reductions could hinder the return of a robust global economy and cause instability in the financial markets. various governments in europe have announced budget reductions and/or austerity measures as a means to limit fiscal budget deficits as a result of the economic crisis. additionally, many state and local governments in the u.s. have also implemented budget reductions. these factors could weaken the u.s. economic recovery. a weak u.s. economic recovery could have a material adverse effect on us. should economic indicators not improve, the u.s. could face a further recession and deflation. such economic conditions could affect us in a variety of substantial and unpredictable ways as well as affect our borrowers ability to meet their repayment obligations. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. the failure of the european union to stabilize its weaker member economies, such as greece, portugal, spain, hungary, ireland, and italy, could have international implications affecting the stability of global financial markets and hindering the u.s. economic recovery. on the eve of may 10, 2010, greece was facing imminent default on its obligations. on may 10, 2010, finance ministers from the european union announced a deal to provide $560 billion in new loans and $76 billion under an existing lending program to countries facing instability. the international monetary fund joined forces and announced that it was prepared to give $321 billion separately. the european central bank also announced that it would buy government and corporate debt, and the world leading central banks, including the federal reserve, bank of canada, bank of england, bank of japan, and swiss national bank, announced a joint intervention to make more dollars available for interbank lending. these and other monetary and fiscal policy efforts appear to have stabilized the european union weaker member economies. nevertheless, should these monetary and fiscal policy measures be insufficient to restore stability to the financial markets, the recovery of the u.s. economy could be hindered or reversed, which could have a material adverse effect on us. the dodd-frank act subjects us to a variety of new and more stringent legal and regulatory requirements. because the dodd-frank act imposes more stringent regulatory requirements on the largest financial institutions, key could be competitively disadvantaged. on july 21, 2010, president obama signed the dodd-frank act into law. the dodd-frank act is intended to address perceived deficiencies and gaps in the regulatory framework for financial services in the united states, reduce the risks of bank failures and better equip the nation regulators to guard against or mitigate any future financial crises, and manage systemic risk through increased supervision of systemically important financial companies (including nonbank financial companies). although many provisions remain subject to further rulemaking, the dodd-frank act implements numerous and far-reaching changes across the 12 table of contents financial landscape affecting financial companies, including bank and bank-holding companies such as key, by, among other things: requiring regulation and oversight of large, systemically important financial institutions by establishing an interagency council, the financial stability oversight council ( fsoc ), to identify and manage systemic risk in the financial system, and requiring the implementation of heightened prudential standards and regulation by the federal reserve for systemically important financial institutions (including nonbank financial companies); applying prudential standards to large interconnected financial companies, including bhcs like us that have at least $50 billion in total consolidated assets and certain nonbanks regulated by the federal reserve. such heightened prudential standards must include risk-based capital requirements, leverage limits, liquidity requirements, overall risk management requirements, resolution plan and credit exposure reporting, and concentration limits. they also may include a contingent capital requirement, enhanced public disclosures, short-term debt limits, and such other standards as the federal reserve, on its own or pursuant to fsoc recommendation, determines are appropriate; requiring that large interconnected financial companies with at least $50 billion in total assets prepare and maintain a rapid and orderly resolution plan, which must be approved by the federal reserve and the fdic; creating a new federal receivership process pursuant to which the fdic will serve as receiver for large, interconnected financial companies, including bank holding companies, whose failure poses a significant risk to the financial stability of the united states. all costs of an orderly liquidation are borne first by shareholders and unsecured creditors, and, if necessary, by risk-based assessments on large financial companies; applying the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank holding companies, savings and loan holding companies and systemically important nonbank financial companies, which, among other things, will gradually exclude all trust preferred and cumulative preferred securities from tier 1 capital, and may impose new capital and liquidity requirements consistent with the basel iii capital and liquidity frameworks; limiting the federal reserve emergency authority to lend to nondepository institutions to facilities with broad-based eligibility, and authorizing the fdic to establish an emergency financial stabilization fund for solvent depository institutions and their holding companies, subject to the approval of congress, the u.s. treasury secretary and the federal reserve; centralizing responsibility for consumer financial protection by creating a new agency, the consumer financial protection bureau (the cfpb ), with responsibility for implementing, examining and enforcing compliance with federal consumer financial laws, a number of which will be strengthened by provisions of the dodd-frank act and the regulations promulgated thereunder; imposing new regulatory requirements and restrictions on federally insured depository institutions, their holding companies and other affiliates, as well as other systemically important nonbank financial companies, including the so-called volcker rule ban on proprietary trading and sponsorship of, and investment in hedge funds and private equity funds; creating regimes for regulation of over-the-counter derivatives and non-admitted property and casualty insurers and reinsurers. the regulation of over-the-counter derivatives shall include the so-called lincoln push-out provision that effectively prohibits insured depository institutions from conducting certain derivatives businesses in the institution; requiring any interchange transaction fee charged for a debit transaction to be reasonable and proportional to the cost incurred by the issuer for the transaction, directing the federal reserve to prescribe new regulations establishing such fee standards, eliminating exclusivity arrangements between issuers and networks for debit card transactions, and imposing limits for restrictions on merchant discounting for the use of certain payment forms and minimum or maximum amount thresholds as a condition for acceptance of credit cards; implementing regulation of hedge fund and private equity advisers by requiring that advisers that manage $150 million or more in assets to register with the sec; 13 table of contents requiring issuers of asset-backed securities to retain some of the risk associated with the offered securities; providing for the implementation of corporate governance provisions for all public companies concerning proxy access and executive compensation; increasing the fdic deposit insurance limits permanently to $250,000 for non-transaction accounts, providing for unlimited federal deposit insurance on non-interest bearing demand transaction accounts at all insured depository institutions effective december 31, 2010 through december 31, 2012, and changing the assessment base from insured deposits to average consolidated assets less average tangible equity, eliminating the ceiling on the size of the dif, increasing the reserve ratio for the dif, and imposing assessments upon bank holding companies to support the cost of resolution and regulation of such entities required by the dodd-frank act; reforming regulation of credit rating agencies, and requiring federal agencies to remove references to credit ratings as a measure of creditworthiness for, among other things, purposes of capital, analysis of credits, and liquidity; and repealing the federal prohibitions on the payment of interest on demand deposits, thereby permitting depository institutions to pay interest on business transaction accounts. the dodd-frank act defers many of the details of its mandated reforms to future rulemakings by a variety of federal regulatory agencies. while we cannot predict the effect of these various rulemakings which have yet to be issued, we do anticipate a variety of new and more stringent legal and regulatory requirements. regulatory reform will likely place additional costs on larger financial institutions, may impede growth opportunities, and may place larger financial institutions at a competitive disadvantage in the market place. additionally, reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that we deal with in the course of our business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies, and investors. heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations resulting from the dodd-frank act and the rules promulgated thereunder could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us. the dodd-frank act provides for the phase-out beginning january 1, 2013, of trust preferred securities and cumulative preferred securities as eligible tier 1 risk-based capital for purposes of the regulatory capital guidelines for bank holding companies. currently, our trust preferred and enhanced trust preferred securities represent 15% of our tier 1 risk-based capital or $1.8 billion of our $11.8 billion of tier 1 risk-based capital. by comparison, the u.s. treasury cpp investment, non-cumulative perpetual preferred securities, and our common equity represent 21%, 2% and 62%, respectively, of our tier 1 risk-based capital, as of december 31, 2010. the anticipated phase-out (as eligible tier 1 risk-based capital) of our trust preferred securities and enhanced trust preferred securities will eventually result in us having less of a capital buffer above the current well-capitalized regulatory standard of 6% of tier 1 risk-based capital. accordingly, we may eventually determine it is advisable or our regulators could require us, based upon new capital or liquidity regulations or otherwise, to raise additional tier 1 risk-based capital through the issuance of additional preferred stock or common equity. should such issuances occur, they would likely result in dilution to our shareholders. currently, we expect to have sufficient access to the capital markets to be able to raise any necessary replacement capital. nevertheless, should market conditions deteriorate, our ability to raise capital may be diminished significantly, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. approximately $140 billion of trust preferred securities issued by u.s. financial institutions will be affected by the dodd-frank act phase-out of trust preferred securities as tier 1 eligible. many other institutions are faced with this same issue. furthermore, the dodd-frank act and related or other rulemaking may result in new regulatory capital standards for institutions to be recognized as well-capitalized. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. an offering of a significant amount of additional common shares or equity convertible into our common shares could cause us to issue a significant amount of common shares to a private investor or group of private investors and thus have a significant investor with voting rights. any issuance or issuances totaling a significant amount of our common shares or equity convertible into our common shares could cause us to issue a significant amount of common shares to a private investor or group of investors and thus have a significant investor with voting rights. having a significant shareholder may make some future transactions more difficult or perhaps impossible to complete without the support of such shareholder. the interests of the significant shareholder may not coincide with our interests or the interests of other shareholders. there can be no assurance that any significant shareholder will exercise its influence in our best interests as opposed to its best interests as a significant shareholder. accordingly, a significant shareholder may make it difficult to approve certain transactions even if they are supported by the other shareholders. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. 14 table of contents we are subject to market risks, including in the commercial real estate sector. should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market further deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the fundamentals within the commercial real estate sector remain weak, under continuing pressure by reduced asset values, high vacancies and reduced rents. commercial real estate values peaked in the fall of 2007, after gaining approximately 30% since 2005 and 90% since 2001. according to moody real estate analytics, llc commercial property index (december 2010), commercial real estate values were down 42% from their peak. many of our commercial real estate loans were originated between 2005 and 2007. a portion of our commercial real estate loans are construction loans. these properties are typically not fully leased at the origination of the loan, but the borrower may be reliant upon additional leasing through the life of the loan to provide cash flow to support debt service payments. weak economic conditions typically slow the execution of new leases; such conditions may also lead to existing lease turnover. as we experienced during 2010, vacancy rates for retail, office and industrial space are expected to remain elevated and could increase in 2011. increased vacancies could result in rents falling further over the next several quarters. the combination of these factors could result in further weakening in the fundamentals underlying the commercial real estate market. should these fundamentals continue to deteriorate as a result of further decline in asset values and the instability of rental income, it could have a material adverse effect on us. declining asset prices could adversely affect us. during the recent recession in december 2007 to june 2009, the volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets have experienced reached extreme levels. the severe market dislocations in 2008 led to the failure of several substantial financial institutions, causing widespread liquidation of assets and further constraining credit markets. these asset sales, along with asset sales by other leveraged investors, including some hedge funds, rapidly drove down prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded asset classes. asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of many of the asset categories represented on our balance sheet, and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable. for example, a further recession would likely reverse recent positive trends in asset prices. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to credit risk, in the form of changes in interest rates and/or changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate, which changes could adversely affect us. there are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading activities. these risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate. increases in interest rates and/or further weakening of economic conditions caused by a double-dip recession or otherwise could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 69% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. we closely monitor and manage risk concentrations and utilize various portfolio management practices to limit excessive concentrations when it is feasible to do so; however, our loan portfolio still contains a number of commercial loans with relatively large balances. we also do business with environmentally sensitive industries and in connection with the development of brownfield sites that provide appropriate business opportunities. we monitor and evaluate our borrowers for compliance with environmental-related covenants, which include covenants requiring compliance with applicable law. we take steps to mitigate risks; however, should political or other changes make it difficult for certain of our customers to maintain compliance with applicable covenants, our credit quality could be adversely affected. the deterioration of one or more of any of our loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which could result in net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. we also are subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment against us of civil money or other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on us. there can be no assurance that the legislation and other initiatives undertaken by the united states government to restore liquidity and stability to the u.s. financial system and reform financial regulation in the u.s. will help stabilize the u.s. financial system. since 2008, the federal government has intervened in an unprecedented manner in response to the recent financial crisis that affected the banking system and financial markets. the eesa was enacted and signed into law by president bush in october 2008 in response to the ongoing financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. under the authority provided by eesa, the u.s. treasury established the cpp, and the core provisions of the financial stability plan aimed at stabilizing and providing liquidity to the financial markets. there 15 table of contents can be no assurance regarding the actual impact that the eesa, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 ( recovery bill ), the dodd-frank act, the tax compromise, or other programs and initiatives undertaken by the u.s. government will have on the financial markets. in addition, the federal reserve has implemented a variety of monetary policy measures to stabilize the economy. nevertheless, the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability experienced in late 2008 and through the third quarter of 2009 may return or persist. during the liquidity crisis from late 2007 to 2009, regional financial institutions faced difficulties issuing debt in the fixed income debt markets; these conditions could return and pose continued difficulties for the issuance of both medium term note and long-term subordinated note issuances. the failure of the u.s. government programs to sufficiently contribute to financial market stability and put the u.s. economy on a stable path for an economic recovery could result in a worsening of current financial market conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on us. in the event that any of the various forms of turmoil experienced in the financial markets return or become exacerbated, there may be a material adverse effect on us from (1) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets, (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our transaction counterparties specifically, (3) limitations resulting from further governmental action to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (4) recessionary conditions that return, are deeper, or last longer than currently anticipated. issuing a significant amount of common equity to a private investor may result in a change in control of keycorp under regulatory standards and contractual terms. should we obtain a significant amount of additional capital from any individual private investor, a change of control could occur under applicable regulatory standards and contractual terms. such change of control may trigger notice, approval and/or other regulatory requirements in many states and jurisdictions in which we operate. we are a party to various contracts and other agreements that may require us to obtain consents from our respective contract counterparties in the event of a change in control. the failure to obtain any required regulatory consents or approvals or contractual consents due to a change in control may have a material adverse effect on us. should we decide to repurchase the u.s. treasury series b preferred stock, future issuance(s) of common shares may be necessary, which, if necessary, may result in significant dilution to holders of keycorp common shares. in conjunction with any repurchase of the series b preferred stock issued to the u.s. treasury, we may elect or be required by our regulators to increase the amount of our tier 1 common equity through the sale of additional common shares. in addition, in connection with the u.s. treasury purchase of the series b preferred stock, pursuant to a letter agreement dated november 14, 2008, and the securities purchase agreement standard terms, the u.s. treasury received a warrant to purchase 35,244,361 of our common shares at an initial per share exercise price of $10.64, subject to adjustment, which expires ten years from the issuance date, and we have agreed to provide the u.s. treasury with registration rights covering the warrant and the underlying common shares. the terms of the warrant provide for a procedure, upon repurchase of the series b preferred stock, to determine the value of the warrant, and purchase the warrant, within approximately 40 days of the repurchase of the series b preferred stock. however, even if we were to redeem the series b preferred stock, there is no assurance that this warrant will be fully retired and, therefore, that it will not be exercised, prior to its expiration date. the issuance of additional common shares as a result of the exercise of the warrant the u.s. treasury holds would likely dilute the ownership interest of keycorp existing common shareholders. the terms of the warrant provide that, if we issue common shares or securities convertible or exercisable into or exchangeable for common shares at a price that is less than 90% of the market price of such shares on the last trading day preceding the date of the agreement to sell such shares, the number and the per share price of common shares to be purchased pursuant to the warrant will be adjusted pursuant to its terms. we may also choose to issue securities convertible into or exercisable for our common shares and such securities may themselves contain anti-dilution provisions. such anti-dilution adjustment provisions may have a further dilutive effect on other holders of our common shares. there can be no assurance that we will not in the future determine that it is advisable, or that we will not encounter circumstances where we determine that it is necessary, to issue additional common shares, securities convertible into or exchangeable for common shares or common-equivalent securities to fund strategic initiatives or other business needs or to build additional capital. nevertheless, there can be no assurance that our regulators, including the u.s. treasury and the federal reserve, will not conduct additional stress test capital assessments outside of typical examination cycles, such as the scap, and/or require us to generate additional capital, including tier 1 common equity, in the future in the event of further negative economic circumstances, in order for us to redeem our series b preferred stock held by the u.s. treasury under the cpp or otherwise. the market price of our common shares could decline as a result of such exchange offerings, as well as other sales of a large block of our common shares or similar securities in the market thereafter, or the perception that such sales could occur. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. 16 table of contents we may not be permitted to repurchase the u.s. treasury cpp investment if and when we request approval to do so. while it is our plan to repurchase the series b preferred stock as soon as practicable, in order to repurchase such securities, in whole or in part, we must establish to our regulators satisfaction that we have met all of the conditions to repurchase and must obtain the approval of the federal reserve and the u.s. treasury. there can be no assurance that we will be able to repurchase the u.s. treasury cpp investment in our series b preferred stock subject to conditions that we find acceptable, or at all. in addition to limiting our ability to return capital to our shareholders, the u.s. treasury investment could limit our ability to retain key executives and other key employees, and limit our ability to develop business opportunities. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect our earnings on loans and other interest-earning assets. our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the federal reserve. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. we use simulation analysis to produce an estimate of interest rate exposure based on assumptions and judgments related to balance sheet changes, customer behavior, new products, new business volume, product pricing, competitor behavior, the behavior of market interest rates and anticipated hedging activities. simulation analysis involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires estimates of future risks and trends. accordingly, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those derived in simulation analysis due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, actual hedging strategies employed, changes in balance sheet composition, and the possible effects of unanticipated or unknown events. although we believe that we have implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including simulation analysis and the use of interest rate derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to changes in the financial markets which could adversely affect us. traditionally, market factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, changes in the equity markets and changes in the financial soundness of bond insurers, sureties and other unrelated financial companies have the potential to affect current market values of financial instruments. during 2008, market events demonstrated this to an extreme. between july 2007 and october 2009, conditions in the fixed income markets, specifically the wider credit spreads over benchmark u.s. treasury securities for many fixed income securities, caused significant volatility in the market values of loans, securities, and certain other financial instruments that are held in our trading or held-for-sale portfolios. opportunities to minimize the adverse affects of market changes are not always available. substantial changes in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on us. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services to institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. during 2008, key incurred $54 million of derivative-related charges as a result of market disruption caused by the failure of lehman brothers. another example of losses related to this type of risk are the losses associated with the bernie madoff ponzi scheme ( madoff ponzi scheme ). as a result of the madoff ponzi scheme, our investment subsidiary, austin, determined that its funds had suffered investment losses up to $186 million. following lehman brothers failure, we took several steps to better measure, monitor, and mitigate our counterparty risks and to reduce these exposures and implemented our enterprise risk management program to better monitor and evaluate risk presented enterprise-wide. these measures include daily position measurement and reporting, the use of scenario analysis and stress testing, replacement cost estimation, risk mitigation strategies, and market feedback validation. 17 table of contents many of our routine transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. it is not possible to anticipate all of these risks and it is not feasible to mitigate these risks completely. accordingly, there is no assurance that our enterprise risk management program will effectively mitigate these risks. accordingly, these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our funding levels. market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although we have implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on us. certain credit markets that we participate in and rely upon as sources of funding were significantly disrupted and volatile from the third quarter of 2007 through the third quarter of 2009. credit markets have improved since then, and we have significantly reduced our reliance on wholesale funding sources. part of our strategy to reduce liquidity risk involves promoting customer deposit growth, exiting certain noncore lending businesses, diversifying our funding base, maintaining a liquid asset portfolio, and strengthening our capital base to reduce our need for debt as a source of liquidity. many of these disrupted markets are showing signs of recovery. nonetheless, if further market disruption or other factors reduce the cost effectiveness and/or the availability of supply in the credit markets for a prolonged period of time, should our funding needs necessitate it, we may need to expand the utilization of unsecured wholesale funding instruments, or use other potential means of accessing funding and managing liquidity such as generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, purchasing deposits from other banks, borrowing under certain secured wholesale facilities, and utilizing relationships developed with fixed income investors in a variety of markets domestic, european and canadian as well as increased management of loan growth and investment opportunities and other management tools. there can be no assurance that these alternative means of funding will be available; under certain stressed conditions experienced in the liquidity crisis during 2007-2009, some of these alternative means of funding were not available. should these forms of funding become unavailable, it is unclear what impact, given current economic conditions, unavailability of such funding would have on us. a deep and prolonged disruption in the markets could have the effect of significantly restricting the accessibility of cost effective capital and funding, which could have a material adverse effect on us. various factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to increase. we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense, that represents our estimate of losses within the existing portfolio of loans. the allowance is necessary to reserve for estimated loan and lease losses and risks incurred in the loan portfolio. the level of the allowance reflects our ongoing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan and lease loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions, and incurred losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, the stagnation of certain economic indicators that we are more susceptible to, such as unemployment and real estate values, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. in addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management. in addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses (i.e., if the loan and lease allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan and lease loss provisions to increase the allowance for loan and lease losses. additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan and lease losses, should they become necessary, would result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to operational risk. we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. operational risk also encompasses compliance (legal) risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards. we are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business, such as certain loan processing functions. additionally, some of our outsourcing arrangements are located overseas and therefore are subject to political risks unique to the regions in which they operate. although we seek to mitigate operational risk through a 18 table of contents system of internal controls, resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation or foregone opportunities, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we operate. our success depends primarily on economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. we have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic areas where our branches are located the northwest, the rocky mountains, the great lakes and the northeast as well as potential exposure to geographic areas outside of our branch footprint. for example, the nonowner-occupied properties segment of our commercial real estate portfolio has exposures in markets outside of our footprint. real estate values and cash flows have been negatively affected on a national basis due to weak economic conditions. certain markets, such as florida, southern california, phoenix, arizona, and las vegas, nevada, have experienced more significant deterioration. the delinquencies, nonperforming loans and charge-offs that we have experienced since 2007 have been more heavily weighted to these specific markets. the regional economic conditions in areas in which we conduct our business have an impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. a significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, an act of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors, such as severe declines in the value of homes and other real estate, could also impact these regional economies and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. we operate in a highly competitive industry and market areas. we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. such competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various markets in which we operate. we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional and national financial services firms. in recent years, while the breadth of the institutions that we compete with has increased, competition has intensified as a result of consolidation efforts. during 2009, competition continued to intensify as the challenges of the liquidity crisis and market disruption led to further redistribution of deposits and certain banking assets to strong and large financial institutions. we expect this trend to continue. the competitive landscape was also affected by the conversion of traditional investment banks to bank holding companies during the liquidity crisis due to the access it provides to government-sponsored sources of liquidity. the financial services industry competitive landscape could become even more intensified as a result of legislative, regulatory, structural and technological changes and continued consolidation. also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; our ability to expand our market position; the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; our ability to attract and retain talented executives and relationship managers; and industry and general economic trends. failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. these regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. keycorp, as well as other financial institutions more generally, have recently been subjected to increased scrutiny from regulatory authorities stemming from broader systemic regulatory concerns, including with respect to stress testing, capital levels, asset quality, provisioning and other prudential matters, arising as a result of the recent financial crisis and efforts to ensure that financial institutions take steps to improve their risk management and prevent future crises. congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. the passage of the dodd-frank act has made it clear that a variety of significant changes to the banking and financial institutions 19 table of contents regulatory regime will be implemented over the next few years. it is not possible to predict the scope of such changes or their potential impact on our financial position or results of operations. these regulations or others designed to implement parts of comprehensive financial regulatory reform could limit our ability to conduct certain of our businesses, such as funds that are managed by our investment advisor subsidiary, victory capital management inc., or funds sponsored and advised by our principal investing line of business, which could require us to divest or spin-off certain of our business units and private equity investments. furthermore, as part of the scap, key was identified as a financial institution that was one of nineteen firms that collectively hold two-thirds of the banking assets and more than one-half of the loans in the u.s. banking system. while it is difficult to predict the extent or nature of regulatory reform, should regulatory reform limit the size of the scap banks, our ability to pursue opportunities to achieve growth through the acquisition of other banks or deposits could be affected, which, in turn could have a material adverse effect on us. changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies; changes in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies; and/or continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, and could have a material adverse effect on us. such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products that we may offer and/or increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. failure to appropriately comply with laws, regulations or policies (including internal policies and procedures designed to prevent such violations) could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on us. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. we regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on us. we rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our funds. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. with the exception of cash raised from debt and equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our cash flow from dividends from our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our equity securities and interest and principal on our debt. federal banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that keybank (our largest subsidiary) and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay to us. during 2008 and 2009, keybank did not pay any dividends to us; nonbank subsidiaries paid us $25 million in dividends during 2010. during 2010, keybank could not pay dividends to keycorp because keybank net losses of $1.151 billion for 2009 and $1.161 billion for 2008 exceeded keybank net income during 2010. for further information on the regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by keybank, see supervision and regulation capital actions, dividend restrictions and the supervisory capital assessment program of this report. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. in the event keybank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our equity securities. the inability to receive dividends from keybank could have a material adverse effect on us. our earnings and/or financial condition may be affected by changes in accounting principles and in tax laws, or the interpretation of them. changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on us. although these changes may not have an economic impact on our business, they could affect our ability to attain targeted levels for certain performance measures. like all businesses, we are subject to tax laws, rules and regulations. changes to tax laws, rules and regulations, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax laws, rules and regulations by the internal revenue service or other governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. such changes could subject us to additional costs, among other things. failure to appropriately comply with tax laws, rules and regulations could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on us. additionally, we conduct quarterly assessments of our deferred tax assets. the carrying value of these assets is dependent upon earnings forecasts and prior period earnings, among other things. a significant change in our assumptions could affect the carrying value of our deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us. 20 table of contents potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; potential disruption to our business; potential diversion of our management time and attention; the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; difficulty in estimating the value (i.e. the assets and liabilities) of the target company; difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and derivatives of the target company; and potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. as a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on us. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want and/or need. in order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, our performance, including our competitive position, could suffer, and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. although we have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse effect on us because of the loss of the employee skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel for our talented executives and/or relationship managers. pursuant to the standardized terms of the cpp, among other things, we agreed to institute certain restrictions on the compensation of certain senior executive management positions that could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified senior executives. other restrictions were imposed under the recovery act, the dodd-frank act and other legislation or regulations. our ability to attract and/or retain talented executives and/or relationship managers may be affected by these developments or any new executive compensation limits, and such restrictions could have a material adverse effect on us. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. we continually encounter technological change. the financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. our largest competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in 21 table of contents marketing these products and services to our customers. failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to claims and litigation. from time to time, customers and/or vendors may make claims and take legal actions against us. we maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment of the claims. whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry. there have also been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. any financial liability for which we have not adequately maintained reserves, and/or any reputation damage from such claims and legal actions, could have a material adverse effect on us. severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. although we have established disaster recovery plans and procedures, and monitor for significant environmental effects on our properties or our investments, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on us. risks associated with our common shares our issuance of securities to the u.s. treasury may limit our ability to return capital to our shareholders and is dilutive to our common shares. if we are unable to redeem such preferred shares, the dividend rate will increase substantially after five years. in connection with our sale of $2.5 billion of the series b preferred stock to the u.s. treasury in conjunction with its cpp, we also issued a warrant to purchase 35,244,361 of our common shares at an exercise price of $10.64. the number of shares was determined based upon the requirements of the cpp, and was calculated based on the average market price of our common shares for the 20 trading days preceding approval of our issuance (which was also the basis for the exercise price of $10.64). the terms of the transaction with the u.s. treasury include limitations on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common shares. for three years after the issuance or until the u.s. treasury no longer holds any series b preferred stock, we will not be able to increase our dividends above the level of our quarterly dividend declared during the third quarter 2008 ($0.1875 per common share on a quarterly basis) nor repurchase any of our common shares or preferred stock without, among other things, u.s. treasury approval or the availability of certain limited exceptions (e.g., purchases in connection with our benefit plans). furthermore, as long as the series b preferred stock issued to the u.s. treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common shares, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. these restrictions, combined with the dilutive impact of the warrant, may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares, and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on us. unless we are able to redeem the series b preferred stock during the first five years, the dividend payments on this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% ($125 million annually) to 9% ($225 million annually). depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact our liquidity and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on us. you may not receive dividends on the common shares. holders of our common shares are only entitled to receive such dividends as the board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. furthermore, our common shareholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. as of february 17, 2011, there were 2,904,839 shares of keycorp series a preferred stock with a liquidation preference of $100 per share issued and 22 table of contents outstanding and 25,000 shares of the series b preferred stock with a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share issued and outstanding. in july 2009, we reduced the quarterly dividend on our common shares to $0.01 per share. as long as our series a preferred stock and the series b preferred stock are outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common shares, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. in addition, prior to november 14, 2011, unless we have redeemed all of the series b preferred stock or the u.s. treasury has transferred all of the series b preferred stock to third parties, the consent of the u.s. treasury will be required for us to, among other things, increase our common shares dividend above $.1875, except in limited circumstances should we redeem the u.s. treasury investment, our ability to increase our dividend. these factors could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. also, keycorp is a bank holding company and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the federal reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. in addition, terms of keybank outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on keycorp capital stock, including its common shares, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if an event of default has occurred and is continuing under the applicable indenture, if we are in default with respect to a guarantee payment under the guarantee of the related capital securities or if we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. there may be future sales or other dilution of our equity, which may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. we are not restricted from issuing additional common shares, including securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive, common shares. as described above, in connection with our sale of $2.5 billion of series b preferred stock to the u.s. treasury, we issued to the department of the treasury a warrant to purchase 35,244,361 of our common shares at an exercise price of $10.64, subject to adjustment. although we have the right to repurchase the warrant at a negotiated price, we may not desire or be able to do so; and if we do not repurchase the warrant, the u.s. treasury could either exercise the warrant or sell it to third parties. the issuance of additional common shares as a result of exercise of this warrant or the issuance of convertible securities would dilute the ownership interest of existing holders of our common shares. in addition, we have in the past and may in the future issue options, convertible preferred stock, and/or other securities that may have a dilutive effect on our common shares. the market price of our common shares could decline as a result of any such offering, other capital raising strategies or other sales of a large block of shares of our common shares or similar securities in the market, or the perception that such sales could occur. our common shares are equity and are subordinate to our existing and future indebtedness and preferred stock and effectively subordinated to all the indebtedness and other non-common equity claims against our subsidiaries. our common shares are equity interests and do not constitute indebtedness. as such, our common shares will rank junior to all of our current and future indebtedness and to other non-equity claims against us and our assets available to satisfy claims against us, including in the event of our liquidation. additionally, holders of our common shares are subject to the prior dividend and liquidation rights of holders of our outstanding preferred stock. our board of directors is authorized to issue additional classes or series of preferred stock without any action on the part of the holders of our common shares. in addition, our right to participate in any distribution of assets of any of our subsidiaries upon the subsidiary liquidation or otherwise, and thus the ability of a holder of our common shares to benefit indirectly from such distribution, will be subject to the prior claims of creditors of that subsidiary, except to the extent that any of our claims as a creditor of such subsidiary may be recognized. as a result, our common shares will effectively be subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of our subsidiaries. as of december 31, 2010, we had $13.8 billion of borrowed funds and $60.6 billion of deposits; and the aggregate liquidation preference of our outstanding preferred stock was $2.7 billion. our share price can be volatile. share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common shares when you want and at prices you find attractive. our share price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; recommendation by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our business; changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the market for mortgage-related securities; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; 23 table of contents perceptions of us and/or our competitors in the marketplace; new technology used, or products or services offered, by competitors; significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments entered into by us or our competitors; failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; our past and future dividend practices; changes in governmental regulations affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; changes in global financial markets, economies and market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility; geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and the occurrence or nonoccurrence, as appropriate, of any circumstance described in these risk factors. general market fluctuations, market disruption, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our share price to decrease regardless of operating results. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. an investment in our common shares is not an insured deposit. our common shares are not a bank deposit and, therefore, are not insured against loss by the fdic, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. investment in our common shares is inherently risky for the reasons described in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common shares in any company. as a result, if you acquire our common shares, you may lose some or all of your investment. our articles of incorporation and regulations, as well as certain banking laws, may have an anti-takeover effect. provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. the combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. risks associated with our industry maintaining or increasing our market share may depend upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive prices for our products and services. the continuous, widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services, requires us to evaluate our product and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. there is increasing pressure from our competitors, both bank and non-bank, to keep pace with evolving preferences of consumers and businesses. payment methods and financial service providers have evolved as the advancement of technology has made possible the delivery of financial products and services through different mediums and providers, such as cell phones and pay-pal accounts; thereby, increasing competitive pressure in the delivery of financial products and services. the adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify our existing products and services. furthermore, we might not be successful in developing or introducing new products and services, adapting to changing consumer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance or regulatory approval, or sufficiently developing or maintaining a loyal customer base. the introduction of new products and services has the potential to introduce risk which, in turn, can present challenges to us in operating within our risk tolerances while also achieving growth in our market share. in addition, there is increasing pressure from our competitors to deliver products and services at lower prices. these factors could reduce our revenues from our net interest margin and fee-based products and services and have a material adverse effect on us. certain industries, including the financial services industry, are more significantly affected by certain economic factors such as unemployment and real estate asset values. should the improvement of these economic factors lag the improvement of the overall economy, or not occur, we could be adversely affected. should the stabilization of the u.s. economy lead to a general economic recovery, the improvement of certain economic factors, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and rents, may nevertheless continue to lag behind the overall economy, or not occur at all. these economic factors typically affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly. for example, improvements in commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic recovery by twelve to eighteen months. our clients include entities active in these industries. furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business, like ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on 24 table of contents loans. should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on us. difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry, business and results of operations. the dramatic deterioration experienced in the housing market since 2007 led to weakness across geographies, industries, and ultimately the broad economy. during this period, the housing market experienced falling home prices, increasing foreclosures; unemployment and under-employment rose significantly; and weakened commercial real estate fundamentals negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, and commercial and investment banks. the resulting write-downs to assets of financial institutions caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection. it is not possible to predict if these economic conditions will re-emerge, which of our markets, products or other businesses may ultimately be affected, and whether our actions and government remediation efforts may effectively mitigate these factors. if economic conditions deteriorate, it could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. if economic conditions deteriorate, we may face the following risks, including, but not limited to: increased regulation of our industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations. impairment of our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite customers become less predictive of future behaviors due to fundamental changes in economic conditions. the process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. in a highly uncertain economic environment, these processes may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and, in turn, may impact the reliability of our evaluation of our credit risk and exposure. our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in securitization funding transactions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by future disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. we may be required to pay significantly higher fdic premiums in the future because market developments significantly deplete the insurance fund of the fdic and reduce the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. financial institutions may be required, regardless of risk, to pay taxes or other fees to the u.s. treasury. such taxes or other fees could be designed to reimburse the u.s. treasury for the many government programs and initiatives it may undertake as part of its economic stimulus efforts. financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. we may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse effect on us. consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete through alternative methods financial transactions that historically have involved banks. for example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. the loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management in the md a beginning on page 73 and is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption "market risk management" presented on pages 29, 32 and 33 of the financial review section of keycorp's 2001 annual report to shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption "market risk management" presented on pages 30 through 32 of the financial review section of keycorp's 2002 annual report to shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption market risk management presented on pages 33 through 37 of the financial review section of keycorp 2003 annual report to shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption market risk management presented on pages 35 through 39 of the financial review section of keycorp 2004 annual report to shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors an investment in our common shares is subject to risks inherent to our business. the material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. although we have significant risk management policies, procedures and verification processes in place, additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. this report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. 8 table of contents if any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if this were to happen, the value of our common shares could decline, perhaps significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business we are subject to interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the federal reserve board. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including the use of derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding interest rate risk is included in the section captioned risk management market risk management interest rate risk management beginning on page 38 of the financial review section of keycorp 2005 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to other market risk in addition to interest rate risk the values of some financial instruments vary not only with changes in market interest rates, but also with changes in foreign exchange rates, factors influencing valuations in the equity securities markets and other market-driven rates or prices. for example, the value of a fixed-rate bond will decline if market interest rates increase. similarly, the value of the u.s. dollar regularly fluctuates in relation to other currencies. when the value of an instrument is tied to such external factors, the holder faces market risk. although management believes it has implemented effective strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and credit spreads on the fair value of our trading portfolio, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in those factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding market risk is included in the section captioned risk management market risk management trading portfolio risk management beginning on page 41 of the financial review section of keycorp 2005 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to credit risk there are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading activities. these risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate. increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. we also are subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment against us of civil money or other penalties. 9 table of contents as of december 31, 2005, approximately 69.8% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans (and leases) are generally viewed as potentially having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. these types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. although we closely monitor, and manage, risk concentrations and utilize various portfolio management practices to limit excessive concentrations when it is feasible to do so, our loan portfolio still does contain a number of commercial loans with relatively large balances. the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans, and an increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding credit risk is included in the section captioned risk management credit risk management beginning on page 42 of the financial review section of keycorp 2005 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). various factors may cause our allowance for possible loan losses to increase we maintain an allowance for possible loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense, that represents management estimate of probable losses within the existing portfolio of loans. the allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. the level of the allowance reflects management continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and unexpected losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan losses inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for possible loan losses. in addition, bank regulatory agencies and our independent auditors periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management. in addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for possible loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses. additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses, should they become necessary, would result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding the allowance for loan losses is included in the section captioned risk management credit risk management allowance for loan losses beginning on page 42 of the financial review section of keycorp 2005 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to liquidity risk market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level or cost of liquidity, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although management has implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding liquidity risk is included in the section captioned risk management liquidity risk management beginning on page 46 of the financial review section of keycorp 2005 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). 10 table of contents we are subject to operational risk we, like all businesses, are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. operational risk also encompasses compliance (legal) risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards. although we seek to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls, resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation or forgone opportunities, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding operational risk is included in the section captioned risk management operational risk management beginning on page 48 of the financial review section of keycorp 2005 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we operate our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the markets in which we operate. although we are somewhat geographically diversified, assisted in part in this respect by our out of footprint commercial real estate and equipment leasing lines of business, we still do have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic areas where our keycenters are principally located the midwest, northeast and pacific northwest. the regional economic conditions in these areas have an impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. a significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could also impact these regional economies and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we operate in a highly competitive industry and market areas we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. such competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various markets in which we operate. however, we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional and national financial services firms. the financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives. our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. our ability to expand our market position. the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors. industry and general economic trends. 11 table of contents failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision we, primarily through kbna and certain of its non-bank subsidiaries, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. these regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies; changes in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies; and/or continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products that we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. failure to appropriately comply with laws, regulations or policies (including internal policies and procedures designed to prevent such violations) could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding supervision and regulation is included in the section captioned supervision and regulation in item 1. business, beginning on page 2 of this report. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our revenue keycorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common shares and interest and principal on our debt. various laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that kbna and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay to keycorp. also, keycorp right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. in the event kbna is unable to pay dividends to keycorp, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common shares. the inability to receive dividends from kbna could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding dividend restrictions is included in the section captioned supervision and regulation in item 1. business, on page 3 of this report. potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company. exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company. difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company. potential disruption to our business. 12 table of contents potential diversion of our management time and attention. the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company. difficulty in estimating the value (including goodwill) of the target company. difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and derivatives of the target company. potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. as a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain the people we want and/or need. although we maintain employment agreements with certain key employees, and have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse impact on our business because of the loss of the employee skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we continually encounter technological change the financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. our largest competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. 13 table of contents we are subject to claims and litigation from time to time, customers and/or vendors may make claims and take legal action against us. whether these claims and legal action are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our earnings may be affected by changes in accounting principles and in tax laws changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles could have a significant adverse effect on key reported financial results. although these changes may not have an economic impact on our business, they could affect our ability to attain targeted levels for certain performance measures. we, like all businesses, are subject to tax laws, rules and regulations. changes to tax laws, rules and regulations, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax laws, rules and regulations by the internal revenue service or other governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. such changes could subject us to additional costs, among other things. failure to appropriately comply with tax laws, rules and regulations could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. for example, during 2005, hurricanes katrina and rita caused extensive flooding and destruction along the coastal areas of the gulf of mexico. while we were not significantly and adversely affected by the impact of these specific disasters, other severe weather or natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism or other adverse external events may occur in the future that do have an effect on our business. although management has established disaster recovery plans and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. risks associated with our common shares our share price can be volatile share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. our share price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations. recommendations by securities analysts. operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our business. news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. perceptions of us and/or our competitors in the marketplace. new technology used, or services offered, by competitors. 14 table of contents significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments entered into by us or our competitors. failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. changes in government regulations. geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. general market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our share price to decrease regardless of operating results. an investment in our common shares is not an insured deposit our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the fdic, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. as a result, if you acquire our common shares, you may lose some or all of your investment. our articles of incorporation, regulations and shareholders rights plan as well as certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations, federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, and our stock purchase rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. the combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. risks associated with our industry the earnings of financial services companies are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the united states and abroad. these conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the u.s. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. a deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. we may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete through alternative methods financial transactions that historically have involved banks. for example, consumers can now maintain funds in 15 table of contents brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. the loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management on pages 38 through 42 of the financial review section of keycorp 2005 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto) is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors an investment in our common shares is subject to risks inherent to our business. the material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect us are described below. before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or 9 table of contents incorporated by reference in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. although we have significant risk management policies, procedures and verification processes in place, additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. this report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. if any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if this were to happen, the value of our common shares could decline, perhaps significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. risks related to our business we are subject to interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the federal reserve board. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including the use of derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding interest rate risk is included in the section captioned risk management market risk management interest rate risk management beginning on page 47 of the financial review section of keycorp 2006 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to other market risk in addition to interest rate risk the values of some financial instruments vary not only with changes in market interest rates, but also with changes in foreign exchange rates, factors influencing valuations in the equity securities markets and other market-driven rates or prices. for example, the value of a fixed-rate bond will decline if market interest rates increase. similarly, the value of the u.s. dollar regularly fluctuates in relation to other currencies. when the value of an instrument is tied to such external factors, the holder faces market risk. although management believes it has implemented effective strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and credit spreads on the fair value of our trading portfolio, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in those factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding market risk is included in the section captioned risk management market risk management trading portfolio risk management beginning on page 49 of the financial review section of keycorp 2006 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to credit risk there are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading activities. these risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate. increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. we also are subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment against us of civil money or other penalties. 10 table of contents as of december 31, 2006, approximately 73.4% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans (and leases) are generally viewed as potentially having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. these types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. although we closely monitor and manage risk concentrations and utilize various portfolio management practices to limit excessive concentrations when it is feasible to do so, our loan portfolio still does contain a number of commercial loans with relatively large balances. the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans, and an increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding credit risk is included in the section captioned risk management credit risk management beginning on page 49 of the financial review section of keycorp 2006 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). various factors may cause our allowance for possible loan losses to increase we maintain an allowance for possible loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense, that represents management estimate of probable losses within the existing portfolio of loans. the allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. the level of the allowance reflects management continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and unexpected losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan losses inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for possible loan losses. in addition, bank regulatory agencies and our independent auditors periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management. in addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for possible loan losses, we will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses. additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses, should they become necessary, would result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding the allowance for loan losses is included in the section captioned risk management credit risk management allowance for loan losses beginning on page 50 of the financial review section of keycorp 2006 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to liquidity risk market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level or cost of liquidity, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although management has implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding liquidity risk is included in the section captioned risk management liquidity risk management beginning on page 54 of the financial review section of keycorp 2006 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to operational risk we, like all businesses, are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. operational risk also encompasses compliance (legal) risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards. although we seek to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls, resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, 11 table of contents harm to our reputation or foregone opportunities, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding operational risk is included in the section captioned risk management operational risk management beginning on page 57 of the financial review section of keycorp 2006 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we operate our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the markets in which we operate. although we are somewhat geographically diversified, assisted in part in this respect by our out of footprint commercial real estate and equipment leasing lines of business, we still do have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic areas where our keycenters are principally located the midwest, the northeast and the pacific northwest. the regional economic conditions in these areas have an impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. a significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could also impact these regional economies and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we operate in a highly competitive industry and market areas we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. such competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various markets in which we operate. however, we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional and national financial services firms. the financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives. our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. our ability to expand our market position. the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors. industry and general economic trends. failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision we, primarily through kbna and certain of its non-bank subsidiaries, are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. these regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies; changes in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies; and/or continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices, requirements or 12 table of contents expectations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products that we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. failure to appropriately comply with laws, regulations or policies (including internal policies and procedures designed to prevent such violations) could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding supervision and regulation is included in the section captioned supervision and regulation in item 1. business, beginning on page 2 of this report. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our revenue keycorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common shares and interest and principal on our debt. various laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that kbna and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay to keycorp. also, keycorp right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. in the event kbna is unable to pay dividends to keycorp, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common shares. the inability to receive dividends from kbna could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding dividend restrictions is included in the section captioned supervision and regulation in item 1. business, beginning on page 2 of this report. potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company. exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company. difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company. potential disruption to our business. potential diversion of our management time and attention. the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company. difficulty in estimating the value (including goodwill) of the target company. difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and derivatives of the target company. potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. as a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may 13 table of contents occur in connection with any future transaction. furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain the people we want and/or need. although we maintain employment agreements with certain key employees, and have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse impact on our business because of the loss of the employee skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we continually encounter technological change the financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. our largest competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to claims and litigation from time to time, customers and/or vendors may make claims and take legal action against us. whether these claims and legal action are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our earnings may be affected by changes in accounting principles and in tax laws changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles could have a significant adverse effect on key reported financial results. although these changes may not have an economic impact on our business, they could affect our ability to attain targeted levels for certain performance measures. we, like all businesses, are subject to tax laws, rules and regulations. changes to tax laws, rules and regulations, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax laws, rules and regulations by the internal revenue 14 table of contents service or other governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. such changes could subject us to additional costs, among other things. failure to appropriately comply with tax laws, rules and regulations could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. although management has established disaster recovery plans and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. risks associated with our common shares our share price can be volatile share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. our share price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations. recommendations by securities analysts. operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our business. news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. perceptions of us and/or our competitors in the marketplace. new technology used, or services offered, by competitors. significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments entered into by us or our competitors. failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. changes in government regulations. geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. general market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our share price to decrease regardless of operating results. an investment in our common shares is not an insured deposit our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the fdic, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. as a result, if you acquire our common shares, you may lose some or all of your investment. our articles of incorporation, regulations and shareholders rights plan as well as certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations, federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, and our stock purchase rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. the combination of these provisions may inhibit a 15 table of contents non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. risks associated with our industry the earnings of financial services companies are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the united states and abroad. these conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the u.s. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. a deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. we may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete through alternative methods financial transactions that historically have involved banks. for example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. the loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management on pages 47 through 49 of the financial review section of keycorp 2006 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto) is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors an investment in our common shares is subject to risks inherent to our business. described below are certain risks and uncertainties that management has identified as material. before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. although we have significant risk management policies, procedures and verification processes in place, additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. this report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. if any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if this were to happen, the value of our common shares could decline, perhaps significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 9 table of contents risks related to our business disruptions in financial markets may affect keycorp since july 2007, certain credit markets have experienced difficult conditions, extraordinary volatility and rapidly widening credit spreads and, therefore, have provided significantly reduced availability of liquidity for many borrowers. uncertainties in these markets present significant challenges, particularly for the financial services industry. as a financial services company, our operations and financial condition are affected by economic and market conditions. for example, in the third and fourth quarters of 2007, disruptions in the financial markets caused widening credit spreads resulting in markdowns and/or losses by financial institutions from trading, hedging and other market activities. we are similarly affected. in addition, during the fourth quarter of 2007, we significantly increased our provision for loan losses in response to deteriorating market conditions in our commercial real estate portfolio. in an effort to reduce the potential effects of any prolonged market disruption, management has implemented certain strategic decisions, including securing additional outside sources of funding for certain of its businesses, divesting and/or ceasing to conduct certain of our non-core businesses and closely managing growth and investment opportunities. it is difficult to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether management actions will effectively mitigate these external factors. accordingly, these factors could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding disruptions in financial markets is included in the section captioned highlights of key 2007 performance financial outlook beginning on page 22 of the financial review section of keycorp 2007 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). additional information regarding certain strategic decisions management has implemented is included in the section captioned highlights of key 2007 performance strategic developments beginning on page 23 of the financial review section of keycorp 2007 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to interest rate risk our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the federal reserve board. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. management uses simulation analysis to produce an estimate of interest rate exposure based on assumptions and judgments related to balance sheet growth, customer behavior, new products, new business volume, pricing and anticipated hedging activities. simulation analysis involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires estimates of future risks and trends. accordingly, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those derived in simulation analysis due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, actual hedging strategies employed, changes in balance sheet composition, and the possible effects of unanticipated or unknown events. although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including simulation analysis and the use of derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding interest rate risk is included in the section captioned risk management market risk management interest rate risk management beginning on page 46 of the financial review section of keycorp 2007 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). 10 table of contents we are subject to other market risk recent conditions in the fixed income markets, specifically the widening of credit spreads over benchmark u.s. treasury securities for many fixed income securities, have caused significant volatility in the market values of loans, securities, and certain other financial instruments that are held in our trading or held-for-sale portfolios. other market factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, changes in the equity markets, changes in the financial soundness of bond insurers, sureties and even of other unrelated financial companies, also have the potential to affect current market values of financial instruments. recent market events have demonstrated this effect. although management works to minimize the adverse affects when it is feasible to do so, those opportunities are not always available. it is not possible for management to predict whether there will be further substantial changes in the financial markets, which could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding market risk is included in the section captioned risk management market risk management trading portfolio risk management beginning on page 48 of the financial review section of keycorp 2007 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to credit risk there are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading activities. these risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate. increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. we also are subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment against us of civil money or other penalties. as of december 31, 2007, approximately 74% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. we closely monitor and manage risk concentrations and utilize various portfolio management practices to limit excessive concentrations when it is feasible to do so; however, our loan portfolio still contains a number of commercial loans with relatively large balances. the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans, and an increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding credit risk is included in the section captioned risk management credit risk management beginning on page 51 of the financial review section of keycorp 2007 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). various factors may cause our allowance for possible loan losses to increase we maintain an allowance for possible loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for possible loan losses charged to expense, that represents management estimate of probable losses within the existing portfolio of loans. the allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. the level of the allowance reflects management continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and unexpected losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for possible loan losses inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for possible loan losses. in addition, bank regulatory agencies and our independent auditors periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for possible loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management. in addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for possible loan losses (i.e., if the loan allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan loss provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses. additional provisions to increase the allowance for possible loan losses, should they become 11 table of contents necessary, would result in a decrease in net income and capital, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding the allowance for loan losses is included in the section captioned risk management credit risk management allowance for loan losses beginning on page 52 of the financial review section of keycorp 2007 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to liquidity risk market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although management has implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. certain credit markets that we participate in and rely upon as sources of funding have been significantly disrupted and highly volatile since the third quarter of 2007. these conditions increase our liquidity risk exposure. part of our strategy to reduce liquidity risk involves utilizing the liquidity and stability currently present in the short-term credit markets (borrowings with 0-90 day maturities). at this time, management believes short-term funding opportunities remain available and cost effective. however, if market disruption or other factors reduce the cost effectiveness and/or the availability of supply in the short-term credit market for a prolonged period of time, management may utilize other potential means of accessing, funding and managing liquidity, including more expansive utilization of secured wholesale funding instruments, generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, purchasing deposits from other banks, and relationships with fixed income investors in a variety of markets domestic , european and canadian as well as increased management of loan growth and investment opportunities and other management tools. however, there can be no assurance that these alternative means of funding will exist either. for example, in 2007, key was unable to securitize its student loan portfolio at cost-effective rates. accordingly, a deep and prolonged disruption in the markets could have the effect of significantly restricting the accessibility of cost effective capital and funding which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding liquidity risk is included in the section captioned risk management liquidity risk management beginning on page 48 of the financial review section of keycorp 2007 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to operational risk we, like all businesses, are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. operational risk also encompasses compliance (legal) risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards. although we seek to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls, resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation or foregone opportunities, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding operational risk is included in the section captioned risk management operational risk management beginning on page 55 of the financial review section of keycorp 2007 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we operate our success depends primarily on economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. although we are somewhat geographically diversified, assisted in part in this respect by our out of footprint commercial real estate and equipment leasing lines of business, we still do have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic areas where our branches are principally located the northwest, the rocky mountains, the great lakes and the northeast. we also have potential exposure to geographic areas outside of our branch footprint. for example, the residential properties segment of key commercial real estate construction portfolio has been 12 table of contents adversely affected by the downturn in the u.s. housing market because of deteriorating market conditions, principally in florida and southern california, and the significant increase in the level of nonperforming loans during the second half of 2007. as a result, management recently increased the provision for loan losses. the regional economic conditions in areas in which we conduct our business have an impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. a significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, an act of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors, such as severe declines in the value of homes and other real estate, could also impact these regional economies and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additional information on the risks of the economic conditions of the geographic regions in which we operate is included in the section captioned introduction economic overview beginning on page 16 and figure 1. community banking geographic diversity beginning on page 17, which are part of the financial review section of keycorp 2007 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we operate in a highly competitive industry and market areas we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. such competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various markets in which we operate. however, we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional and national financial services firms. the financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; our ability to expand our market position; the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; and industry and general economic trends. failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. these regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies; changes in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies; and/or continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products that we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. failure to appropriately comply with laws, regulations or policies (including internal policies and procedures designed to prevent such violations) could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which 13 table of contents could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding supervision and regulation is included in the section captioned supervision and regulation in item 1. business, beginning on page 2 of this report. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our funds keycorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. it receives substantially all of its cash flow from dividends from its subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common shares and interest and principal on our debt. various laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that keybank (keycorp largest subsidiary) and certain non-bank subsidiaries may pay to keycorp. also, keycorp right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. in the event keybank is unable to pay dividends to keycorp, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common shares. the inability to receive dividends from keybank could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional information regarding dividend restrictions is included in the section captioned supervision and regulation dividend restrictions in item 1. business, beginning on page 3 of this report. our earnings may be affected by changes in accounting principles and in tax laws changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles could have a significant adverse effect on key reported financial results. although these changes may not have an economic impact on our business, they could affect our ability to attain targeted levels for certain performance measures. we, like all businesses, are subject to tax laws, rules and regulations. changes to tax laws, rules and regulations, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax laws, rules and regulations by the internal revenue service (the irs ) or other governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. such changes could subject us to additional costs, among other things. failure to appropriately comply with tax laws, rules and regulations could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. further, we are currently involved in litigation (previously reported in our sec filings) with the irs concerning the tax treatment of one service contract lease entered into by awg leasing trust. our management believes our tax position is correct. litigation, however, is uncertain. if the litigation is resolved against us, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and a potentially substantial impact on our capital. additional information concerning our income tax risks is included in the lease financing transactions and the tax related accounting pronouncements adopted in 2007 sections of note 17 ( income taxes ) on page 96 of the financial review section of keycorp 2007 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; potential disruption to our business; potential diversion of our management time and attention; 14 table of contents the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; difficulty in estimating the value (including goodwill) of the target company; difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and derivatives of the target company; and potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. as a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense and we may not be able to hire or retain the people we want and/or need. although we maintain employment agreements with certain key employees, and have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse impact on our business because of the loss of the employee skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we continually encounter technological change the financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. our largest competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to claims and litigation from time to time, customers and/or vendors may make claims and take legal action against us. we maintain reserves for certain claims when management deems it is appropriate to do so upon its assessment of the claims. whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect how the market 15 table of contents perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. any financial liability for which we have not adequately maintained reserves, and/or any reputation damage from such claims and legal actions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. although management has established disaster recovery plans and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. risks associated with our common shares our share price can be volatile share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. our share price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations. recommendations by securities analysts. operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our business. news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry. perceptions of us and/or our competitors in the marketplace. new technology used, or services offered, by competitors. significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments entered into by us or our competitors. failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions. changes in government regulations. geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. general market fluctuations, market disruption, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our share price to decrease regardless of operating results. an investment in our common shares is not an insured deposit our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the fdic, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. as a result, if you acquire our common shares, you may lose some or all of your investment. 16 table of contents our articles of incorporation and regulations as well as certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations, federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. the combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. risks associated with our industry the earnings of financial services companies are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions our operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the united states and abroad. these conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the u.s. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond our control. a deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. we may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete through alternative methods financial transactions that historically have involved banks. for example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. the loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management on pages 46 through 48 of the financial review section of keycorp 2007 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto) is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors an investment in our common shares is subject to risks inherent to our business, our industry and ownership of our equity securities. described below are certain risks and uncertainties that management has identified as material. before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. although we have significant risk management policies, procedures and verification processes in place, additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of or focused on or that management currently deems immaterial may also impair our business operations. this report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or access to liquidity and/or credit could be materially and adversely affected ( material adverse effect on key ). if this were to happen, the value of our securities common shares, series a preferred stock, series b preferred stock and our trust preferred securities could decline, perhaps significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 11 table of contents risks related to our business disruptions in financial markets have affected and may continue to affect keycorp. management actions may be unable to mitigate the extreme external factors presenting market risk. the capital and credit markets, including the fixed income markets, have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption since july 2007. during the third and fourth quarters of 2008, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels. uncertainties in these markets present significant challenges, particularly for the financial services industry. as a financial services company, our operations and financial condition are significantly affected by general economic and market conditions. for example, during 2008, the continued disruptions in the financial markets caused markdowns and/or losses by financial institutions from trading, hedging and other market activities. we were similarly affected. for example, we recorded an after-tax, noncash charge of $420 million during the fourth quarter of 2008 due to goodwill impairment resulting from a decline in the fair value of our national banking unit, reflecting the extreme weakness in financial markets. in addition, during 2008, we increased our provision for loan losses in response to the deterioration in our loan portfolios resulting from the economic decline. in an effort to reduce the potential effects of any prolonged market disruption, management has implemented certain strategic decisions, including securing additional outside sources of funding for certain of our businesses, divesting and/or ceasing to conduct certain of our noncore businesses and closely managing growth and investment opportunities. it is difficult to predict how long these challenging economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be affected, and whether management actions will effectively mitigate these extreme external factors. furthermore, the models that key uses to assess the creditworthiness of customers and to estimate losses inherent in its credit exposure may become less predictive due to fundamental changes in the u.s. economy. accordingly, these factors could have a material adverse effect on key. additional information regarding disruptions in financial markets is included in the sections captioned introduction economic overview and highlights of key 2008 performance financial performance beginning on pages 18 and 23, respectively, of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). additional information regarding certain strategic decisions management has implemented is included in the section captioned highlights of key 2008 performance strategic developments on page 28 of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). additional information regarding market risk is included in the section captioned risk management market risk management beginning on page 54 of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to interest rate risk. our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the federal reserve board. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. management uses simulation analysis to produce an estimate of interest rate exposure based on assumptions and judgments related to balance sheet growth, customer behavior, new products, new business volume, product pricing, the behavior of market interest rates and anticipated hedging activities. simulation analysis involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires estimates of future risks and trends. accordingly, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those derived in simulation analysis due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, actual hedging strategies employed, changes in balance sheet composition, and the possible effects of unanticipated or unknown events. 12 table of contents although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including simulation analysis and the use of derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on key. additional information regarding interest rate risk is included in the section captioned risk management market risk management interest rate risk management beginning on page 54 of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to other market risk. traditionally, market factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates, changes in the equity markets and changes in the financial soundness of bond insurers, sureties and even other unrelated financial companies have the potential to affect current market values of financial instruments. recent market events have demonstrated this effect to an extreme. since july 2007, conditions in the fixed income markets, specifically the widening of credit spreads over benchmark u.s. treasury securities for many fixed income securities, have caused significant volatility in the market values of loans, securities, and certain other financial instruments that are held in our trading or held-for-sale portfolios. although management works to minimize the adverse affects when it is feasible to do so, those opportunities are not always available. it is possible that such volatility and adverse effects will continue over a prolonged period of time and/or worsen over time. as such, it is not possible for management to predict whether there will be further substantial changes in the financial markets that could have a material adverse effect on key. additional information regarding market risk is included in the section captioned risk management market risk management trading portfolio risk management on page 56 of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). declining asset prices could adversely affect key. in recent months, the volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets have experienced have reached extreme levels. the market dislocations have led to the failure of several substantial financial institutions, causing widespread liquidation of assets and further constraining credit markets. these asset sales, along with asset sales by other leveraged investors, including some hedge funds, have rapidly driven down prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded asset classes. asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of many of the asset categories represented on our balance sheet, and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable. this could have a material adverse effect on key. there can be no assurance that the eesa, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, and other initiatives undertaken by the united states government to restore liquidity and stability to the u.s. financial system will help stabilize the u.s. financial system. the eesa was enacted in response to the ongoing financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. pursuant to the eesa, the u.s. treasury has authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities, preferred equity and warrants, and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the u.s. financial markets. under its authority provided by eesa, the u.s. treasury established the capital purchase program, and the core provisions of the financial stability plan. there can be no assurance regarding the actual impact that the eesa or the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 (the recovery bill ), or programs and other initiatives undertaken by the u.s. government will have on the financial markets; the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced may persist. the failure of the eesa or other government programs to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could have a material adverse effect on key. for additional information on programs and regulatory changes as a result of the eesa, including increase in deposit insurance limits and the tlgp and the capital purchase program, see the sections captioned business supervision and regulation and federal deposit insurance act beginning on pages 3 and 7, respectively, and the sections captioned introduction economic overview eesa and the u.s. treasury capital purchase program and fdic standard maximum deposit insurance limit increase and the temporary liquidity guarantee program, each of which begins on page 19 of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to 13 table of contents shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). in the event that recent turmoil in the financial markets continues, we may experience a material adverse effect on key from (1) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets, (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our transaction counterparties specifically, (3) limitations resulting from further governmental action to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (4) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect key. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. financial services to institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. key has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. during 2008, key incurred $54 million of derivative-related charges as a result of market disruption caused by the failure of lehman brothers. defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by key cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. while we maintain processes aimed at minimizing such exposures, it is not possible to anticipate all of these risks and it is not feasible to mitigate these risks completely. accordingly, there is no assurance that losses from such risks would not have a material adverse effect on key. we are subject to credit risk. there are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading activities. these risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate. increases in interest rates and/or further weakening of economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. we also are subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment against us of civil money or other penalties. as of december 31, 2008, approximately 72% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. we closely monitor and manage risk concentrations and utilize various portfolio management practices to limit excessive concentrations when it is feasible to do so; however, our loan portfolio still contains a number of commercial loans with relatively large balances. the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, and an increase in nonperforming loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on key. additional information regarding credit risk is included in the section captioned risk management credit risk management beginning on page 60 of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to liquidity risk. market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although management has implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on key. certain credit markets that we participate in and rely upon as sources of funding have been 14 table of contents significantly disrupted and highly volatile since the third quarter of 2007. these conditions increase our liquidity risk exposure. part of our strategy to reduce liquidity risk involves promoting customer deposit growth, exiting certain noncore lending businesses, utilizing the federal reserve term auction facility, and the fdic tlgp. if market disruption or other factors reduce the cost effectiveness and/or the availability of supply in the credit markets for a prolonged period of time, management may expand the utilization of secured wholesale funding instruments, such as the federal reserve term auction facility and the issuance of fdic-guaranteed debt under the fdic tlgp; or use other potential means of accessing funding and managing liquidity such as generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, purchasing deposits from other banks, and utilizing relationships with fixed income investors in a variety of markets domestic, european and canadian as well as increased management of loan growth and investment opportunities and other management tools. however, there can be no assurance that these alternative means of funding will remain available, and it is unclear what impact, given current economic conditions, unavailability of such funding would have on key. for example, in 2007 and 2008, key was unable to securitize its student loan portfolio at cost-effective rates. accordingly, a deep and prolonged disruption in the markets could have the effect of significantly restricting the accessibility of cost effective capital and funding, which could have a material adverse effect on key. additional information regarding liquidity risk is included in the section captioned risk management liquidity risk management beginning on page 56 of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). various factors may cause our allowance for loan losses to increase. we maintain an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents management estimate of losses within the existing portfolio of loans. the allowance, in the judgment of management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. the level of the allowance reflects management continuing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and unexpected losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. in addition, bank regulatory agencies and our independent auditors periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management. in addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses ( i.e. , if the loan allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan loss provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses, should they become necessary, would result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on key. additional information regarding the allowance for loan losses is included in the section captioned risk management credit risk management allowance for loan losses beginning on page 61 of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we are subject to operational risk. we, like all businesses, are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. operational risk also encompasses compliance (legal) risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards. although we seek to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls, resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation or foregone opportunities, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on key. additional information regarding operational risk is included in the section captioned risk management operational risk management beginning on page 67 of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). 15 table of contents our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we operate. our success depends primarily on economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. although we are somewhat geographically diversified, we still do have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic areas where our branches are principally located the northwest, the rocky mountains, the great lakes and the northeast. we also have potential exposure to geographic areas outside of our branch footprint. for example, the residential properties segment of our commercial real estate construction portfolio has been adversely affected by the downturn in the u.s. housing market because of deteriorating market conditions, principally in florida and southern california, and the significant and steady increase in the level of nonperforming loans since the second half of 2007. as a result, management recently increased the provision for loan losses. the regional economic conditions in areas in which we conduct our business have an impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources. a significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, an act of terrorism, outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic occurrences, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors, such as severe declines in the value of homes and other real estate, could also impact these regional economies and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on key. additional information on the risks of the economic conditions of the geographic regions in which we operate is included in the section captioned introduction economic overview beginning on page 18 and figure 1. community banking geographic diversity beginning on page 20, which are part of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). we operate in a highly competitive industry and market areas. we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. such competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various markets in which we operate. however, we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional and national financial services firms. in recent years, while the breadth of the institutions that we compete with has increased, competition has intensified as a result of consolidation efforts. we expect this trend to continue. during 2008, competition intensified as the challenges of the liquidity crisis and market disruption led to redistribution of deposits and certain banking assets to stronger and larger financial institutions. the competitive landscape was also affected by the conversion of traditional investment banks to bank holding companies during the current liquidity crisis due to the access it provides to government-sponsored sources of liquidity. the financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory, structural and technological changes and continued consolidation. also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; our ability to expand our market position; the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; the rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors; our ability to attract and retain talented executives and relationship managers; and industry and general economic trends. 16 table of contents failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on key. we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. these regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. it is likely that there will be significant changes to the banking and financial institutions regulatory regime in light of the recent performance of and government intervention in the financial services industry. it is not possible to predict the impact of such changes on our results of operations. changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies; changes in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies; and/or continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products that we may offer and/or increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. failure to appropriately comply with laws, regulations or policies (including internal policies and procedures designed to prevent such violations) could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on key. additional information regarding supervision and regulation is included in the section captioned supervision and regulation in item 1. business, beginning on page 3 of this report. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on key. we rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our funds. keycorp is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. it receives substantially all of its cash flow from dividends from its subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common shares and interest and principal on our debt. various laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that keybank (keycorp largest subsidiary) and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay to keycorp. during 2008, keybank did not pay any dividends to keycorp; nonbank subsidiaries paid keycorp $113,234 in dividends. as of the close of business on december 31, 2008, keybank would not have been permitted to pay dividends to keycorp without prior regulatory approval since the bank had a net loss of $1.161 billion for 2008. also, keycorp right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. in the event keybank is unable to pay dividends to keycorp, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common shares. the inability to receive dividends from keybank could have a material adverse effect on key. additional information regarding dividend restrictions is included in the section captioned supervision and regulation dividend restrictions in item 1. business, beginning on page 4 of this report, and in note 5 ( restrictions on cash, dividends and lending activities ) and note 14 ( shareholders equity ) under the heading preferred stock series b on page 91 and beginning on page 102, respectively, of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). our earnings may be affected by changes in accounting principles and in tax laws. changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on key. although these changes may not have an economic impact on our business, they could affect our ability to attain targeted levels for certain performance measures. 17 table of contents we, like all businesses, are subject to tax laws, rules and regulations. changes to tax laws, rules and regulations, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax laws, rules and regulations by the internal revenue service or other governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. such changes could subject us to additional costs, among other things. failure to appropriately comply with tax laws, rules and regulations could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on key. additional information concerning our income tax risks is included in note 17 ( income taxes ) beginning on page 110 of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto). potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; potential disruption to our business; potential diversion of our management time and attention; the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; difficulty in estimating the value (including goodwill) of the target company; difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and derivatives of the target company; and potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. as a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on key. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want and/or need. in order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, our performance, including our competitive position, could suffer, and, in turn, cause a material adverse effect on key. although we maintain employment agreements with certain key employees, and have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse effect on key because of the loss of the employee skills, knowledge of our market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel for our talented executives and/or relationship managers. pursuant to the standardized terms of the capital purchase program, among other things, we agreed to institute certain restrictions on the compensation of certain senior executive management positions that could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified senior executives. other restrictions may also be imposed under the recovery bill or other legislation or regulations. key ability to attract and/or retain talented 18 table of contents executives and/or relationship managers may be affected by these developments or any new executive compensation limits, and such restrictions could result in a material adverse effect on key. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on key. we continually encounter technological change. the financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. our largest competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on key. we are subject to claims and litigation. from time to time, customers and/or vendors may make claims and take legal action against us. we maintain reserves for certain claims when management deems it is appropriate to do so upon its assessment of the claims. whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry. there have also been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. any financial liability for which we have not adequately maintained reserves, and/or any reputation damage from such claims and legal actions, could have a material adverse effect on key. severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. although management has established disaster recovery plans and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on key. 19 table of contents risks associated with our common shares our issuance of securities to the u.s. treasury may limit key ability to return capital to its shareholders and is dilutive to our common shares. if we are unable to redeem such preferred shares, the dividend rate increases substantially after five years. in connection with our sale of $2.5 billion of the series b preferred stock to the u.s. treasury in conjunction with its capital purchase program, we also issued a warrant to purchase 35,244,361 of our common shares at an exercise price of $10.64. the number of shares was determined based upon the requirements of the capital purchase program, and was calculated based on the average market price of our common shares for the 20 trading days preceding approval of our issuance (which was also the basis for the exercise price of $10.64). the terms of the transaction with the u.s. treasury include limitations on our ability to pay dividends and repurchase our common shares. for three years after the issuance or until the u.s. treasury no longer holds any series b preferred stock, we will not be able to increase our dividends above the level of our quarterly dividend declared during the third quarter of 2008 ($0.1875 per common share on a quarterly basis) nor repurchase any of our common shares or preferred stock without, among other things, u.s. treasury approval or the availability of certain limited exceptions , e.g ., purchases in connection with our benefit plans. furthermore, as long as the series b preferred stock issued to the u.s. treasury is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common shares, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. these restrictions combined with the dilutive impact of the warrant may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares, and, as a result, they could have a material adverse effect on key. unless we are able to redeem the series b preferred stock during the first five years, the dividend payments on this capital will increase substantially at that point, from 5% ($125 million annually) to 9% ($225 million annually). depending on market conditions at the time, this increase in dividends could significantly impact our liquidity, and as a result, have a material adverse effect on key. keycorp is required to conduct stress tests pursuant to the u.s. treasury capital assistance program, and could be required to raise additional capital that would be dilutive to our common shares and may limit our ability to return capital to our shareholders. on february 25, 2009, the u.s. treasury announced preliminary details of the capital assistance program (the cap ) component of its financial stability plan. the cap is intended to ensure the continued ability of u.s. financial institutions to lend to creditworthy borrowers in the event of a weaker than expected economic environment and larger than expected potential losses. there are two components of cap: (1) a supervisory exercise that involves a forward-looking capital assessment (the stress test ) to determine whether any of the major u.s. banking organizations, including key, need to raise additional capital, and (2) access to qualifying financial institutions to mandatory convertible preferred equity intended to serve as a bridge to private capital in the future. participation in cap is mandatory for all bank holding companies with assets in excess of $100 billion, like keycorp. under the cap, institutions are required to conduct a stress test under assumptions provided by the u.s. government. following the stress test, should the u.s. treasury and key banking regulators determine that additional capital is necessary key will have a six month window to raise that capital privately or to access the capital made available by the u.s. treasury under the cap. should key need to issue additional equity capital, it would be dilutive to our common shares and may limit our ability to return capital to our shareholders. these factors may have a material adverse effect on key. to view the cap term sheet, including a summary of the terms of the mandatory convertible preferred stock and the warrant to purchase common shares that the u.s. treasury receives in connection with any cap issuance see www.financialstability.gov. 20 table of contents our share price can be volatile. share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common shares when you want and at prices you find attractive. our share price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; recommendations by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our business; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; perceptions of us and/or our competitors in the marketplace; new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments entered into by us or our competitors; failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; changes in governmental regulations; geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and the occurrence or nonoccurrence, as appropriate, of any circumstance described in these risk factors. general market fluctuations, market disruption, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause our share price to decrease regardless of operating results. an investment in our common shares is not an insured deposit. our common shares are not a bank deposit and, therefore, are not insured against loss by the fdic, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. investment in our common shares is inherently risky for the reasons described in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common shares in any company. as a result, if you acquire our common shares, you may lose some or all of your investment. our articles of incorporation and regulations as well as certain banking laws may have an anti-takeover effect. provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations, federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. the combination of these provisions may inhibit a nonnegotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. risks associated with our industry difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry, business and results of operations. dramatic declines in the housing market over the past eighteen months, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, and commercial and investment banks. the resulting write-downs to assets of financial institutions have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to seek government assistance or bankruptcy protection. it is not possible to predict how long these economic conditions will exist, which of our markets, products or other businesses will ultimately be 21 table of contents affected, and whether management actions and government remediation efforts will effectively mitigate these factors. accordingly, the resulting lack of available credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, decreased consumer confidence, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could have a material adverse effect on key. furthermore, the continued deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and nonperforming assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse effect on key. as a result of the challenges presented by economic conditions, key may face the following risks, including, but not limited to: increased regulation of our industry, including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations imposed in connection with the eesa, the recovery bill or other government initiatives. compliance with such regulation will likely increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. impairment of our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers if the models and approaches we use to select, manage, and underwrite customers become less predictive of future behaviors due to fundamental changes in economic conditions. the process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. such process may no longer be capable of accurate estimation and, in turn, may impact the reliability of our evaluation of our credit risk and exposure. our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to engage in securitization funding transactions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. increased intensity of competition in the financial services industry due to: (i) the recent mergers of certain financial institutions with stronger and larger financial institutions and the redistribution of fdic-insured deposits and certain banking assets through the fdic least-cost resolution process, and (ii) the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies. we expect competition to intensify as a result of these changes to the competitive landscape. should competition in the financial services industry continue to intensify, our ability to market products and services may be adversely affected. we will be required to pay significantly higher fdic premiums in the future because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the fdic and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. key is also likely to be required to pay other fees necessary to support the eesa, the recovery bill and other government efforts. key ability to attract talented executives and/or relationship managers may be hindered as a result of executive compensation limits under the capital purchase program and/or regulations that may be issued by the u.s. treasury or other regulators pursuant to its authority under the eesa or the recovery bill. furthermore, key may lose talented executives and relationship managers as a result of such limitations. financial services companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. we may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse effect on key. 22 table of contents consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete through alternative methods financial transactions that historically have involved banks. for example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. the loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on key. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management on pages 54 through 56 of the financial review section of keycorp 2008 annual report to shareholders (exhibit 13 hereto) is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors an investment in our common shares or other securities is subject to risks inherent to our business and our industry. described below are certain risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could have a material and 13 table of contents adverse effect on us. before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. although we have significant risk management policies, procedures and practices aimed at mitigating these risks, uncertainties may nevertheless impair our business operations. this report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or access to liquidity and/or credit could be materially and adversely affected ( material adverse effect on us ). if this were to happen, the value of our securities common shares, series a preferred stock, trust preferred securities and debt securities could decline, perhaps significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. our enterprise risk management program (the erm program ) identifies key major risk categories, including: market, compliance, credit, liquidity, and operational, together with reputation and strategic risks as they relate to the foregoing. the following risk factors are grouped into categories consistent with the five preceding main categories of risk focused on in our erm program, with an additional category for risks related to investment in our common shares. i. market risks the global financial markets continue to be strained as a result of the economic slowdown abroad and concerns about the creditworthiness of member states of the european union. these factors could have international implications, which could hinder the u.s. economic recovery and affect the stability of global financial markets. certain european union member states have fiscal obligations greater than their fiscal revenue, which has caused investor concern over such countries ability to continue to service their debt and foster economic growth in their economies. during 2011, the european debt crisis caused spreads to widen in the fixed income debt markets and liquidity to be less abundant. the european debt crisis and measures adopted to address it have significantly weakened european economies. a weaker european economy may cause investors to lose confidence in the safety and soundness of european financial institutions and the stability of european member economies. a failure to adequately address sovereign debt concerns in europe could hamper economic recovery or contribute to recessionary economic conditions and severe stress in the financial markets, including in the united states. should the u.s. economic recovery be adversely impacted by these factors, the likelihood for loan and asset growth at u.s. financial institutions, like key, would deteriorate. the u.s. economy remains vulnerable as the economic recovery continues to progress slowly. the recovery of the u.s. economy continues to progress slowly with improvement expected to continue gradually into 2012 and 2013, according to the federal open market committee (the fomc ). certain downside risks to the u.s. economy remain present. strains in the global financial markets pose significant downside risk to the u.s. economy. unemployment, the slowing pace of business fixed investment, and the depressed housing sector are additional factors of concern. the u.s. economy could also be affected by the slowdown in economic activity abroad often related to fiscal tightening and the significant fiscal challenges that remain for local governments in the u.s. the continuation or worsening of these factors could weaken the u.s. economic recovery underway. the downgrade of u.s. treasury securities by standard &amp; poor ratings services ( s&amp;p ) and political difficulties in addressing the economy within the u.s. government have contributed to high levels of volatility in the financial markets. should economic indicators deteriorate, the u.s. could face another recession, which could affect us in a variety of substantial and unpredictable ways as well as affect our borrowers ability to meet their repayment obligations. we have taken steps since the 2008-2009 financial crisis to strengthen our liquidity position. nevertheless, a return of the volatile economic 14 table of contents conditions recently experienced, including the adverse conditions in the fixed income debt markets, for an extended period of time, particularly if left unmitigated by policy measures, may have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect our earnings on loans and other interest-earning assets. our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the federal reserve. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. we use simulation analysis to produce an estimate of interest rate exposure based on assumptions and judgments related to balance sheet changes, customer behavior, new products, new business volume, product pricing, competitor behavior, the behavior of market interest rates and anticipated hedging activities. simulation analysis involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires estimates of future risks and trends. accordingly, there can be no assurance that actual results will not differ from those derived in simulation analysis due to the timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, actual hedging strategies employed, changes in balance sheet composition, and the possible effects of unanticipated or unknown events. although we believe that we have implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including simulation analysis and the use of interest rate derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on us. ii. compliance risks the regulatory environment for the financial services industry is being significantly impacted by the financial regulatory reform initiatives in the united states, including the dodd-frank act and the regulations promulgated thereunder. the united states as well as other governments have undertaken major reforms of the regulatory oversight structure of the financial services industry. we expect to face increased regulation of our industry as a result of current and future initiatives intended to provide economic stimulus, financial market stability, and enhance the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions, and new efforts designed to protect consumers and investors from financial abuse. we also expect more intense scrutiny from our bank supervisors in the examination process and more aggressive enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state levels, particularly due to both keybank and keycorp status as covered institutions for the enhanced prudential standards promulgated under the dodd-frank act. compliance with these new regulations and supervisory initiatives will likely increase our cost and reduce our revenue and may limit our ability to pursue certain desirable business opportunities. many parts of the dodd-frank act are now in effect, while others are in an implementation stage likely to continue for several years. the law requires that regulators, some of which are new regulatory bodies created by the dodd-frank act, draft, review and approve more than 300 implementing regulations and conduct numerous studies that are likely to lead to more regulations, thus extending the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate impact of the dodd-frank act on us. 15 table of contents a number of reform provisions are likely to significantly impact the ways in which banks and bank holding companies, including key, conduct their business: the newly created regulatory bodies include the bureau of consumer financial protection (the cfpb ) and the financial stability oversight council (the fsoc ). the cfpb has been given authority to regulate consumer financial products and services sold by banks and non-bank companies and to supervise banks with assets of more than $10 billion and their affiliates for compliance with federal consumer protection laws. any new regulatory requirements promulgated by the cfpb could require changes to our consumer businesses, result in increased compliance costs and affect the streams of revenue of such businesses. the fsoc has been charged with identifying systemic risks, promoting stronger financial regulation and identifying those non-bank companies that are systemically important and thus should be subject to regulation by the federal reserve. in addition, in extraordinary cases and together with the federal reserve, the fsoc could break up financial firms that are deemed to present a grave threat to the financial stability of the united states. the dodd-frank act volcker rule provisions prohibit banks from engaging in certain types of proprietary trading. the scope of the proprietary trading prohibition, and its impact on key, will depend on the definitions in the final rule, particularly those definitions related to statutory exemptions for risk-mitigating hedging activities; market-making; and customer-related activities. the volcker rule and the rulemakings promulgated thereunder are also expected to restrict private equity and hedge fund activities. our principal investments and real estate capital lines of business hold certain investments representing in aggregate $538 million ($473 million and $65 million, respectively) that we expect may be subject to certain limitations under the volcker rule. under the proposed rulemaking announced on october 11, 2011, we expect to be able to hold these investments until july 2014 with no restriction, and be eligible to obtain up to three one-year extension periods, subject to regulatory approvals. a forced sale of some of these investments could result in key receiving less value than it would otherwise have received. depending on the provisions of the final rule, it is possible that other structures through which key conducts business but that are not typically referred to as private equity or hedge funds could be restricted, with an impact that cannot be evaluated. pursuant to certain provisions of the dodd-frank act, the federal reserve promulgated regulation ii, debit card interchange fees and routing ( regulation ii ), which limits debit card interchange fees, eliminates exclusivity arrangements between issuers and networks for debit card transactions, and imposes limits for restrictions on merchant discounting for the use of certain payment forms and minimum or maximum amount thresholds as a condition for acceptance of credit cards. the relevant portions of regulation ii became effective october 1, 2011. assuming interchange fees are set at the maximum allowable under regulation ii and we receive the fraud adjustment, we estimate that the impact on our debit interchange revenue stream will be an annualized decline of approximately $50 million to $60 million before any potential offsets from other fees or cost mitigation that may be implemented. new provisions under the dodd-frank act concerning the applicability of state consumer protection laws to national banks, such as keybank, became effective on july 21, 2011. questions may arise as to whether certain state consumer financial laws that may have previously been preempted by federal law are no longer preempted as a result of the effectiveness of these new provisions. depending on how such questions are resolved, we may experience an increase in state-level regulation of our retail banking business and additional compliance obligations, revenue impacts and costs. provisions under the dodd-frank act that also took effect on july 21, 2011, permit state attorneys general to bring civil actions against national banks, such as keybank, for violations of regulations issued by the cfpb. the fdic and the federal reserve have adopted a final rule that requires bank holding companies that have $50 billion or more in assets, like keycorp, to periodically submit to the federal reserve, the fdic and the 16 table of contents fsoc a plan discussing how the company could be resolved in a rapid and orderly fashion if the company were to fail or experience material financial distress. in a related rulemaking, the fdic adopted a final rule that requires insured depository institutions with $50 billion or more in assets, like keybank, to prepare and submit a resolution plan to the fdic. the initial plans for keycorp and keybank are due december 31, 2013. keycorp and keybank will be required to submit updated plans annually thereafter. the federal reserve and the fdic may jointly impose restrictions on keycorp or keybank, including additional capital requirements or limitations on growth, if the agencies determine that the institution plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of keycorp under the u.s. bankruptcy code, or keybank under the fdia, and additionally could require key to divest assets or take other actions if we did not submit an acceptable resolution within two years after any such restrictions were imposed. key is a significant servicer of commercial mortgages held by others, including securitization vehicles. key anticipates that the dodd-frank act risk retention requirements will impact the market for loans of types that historically have been securitized, potentially affecting the volumes of loans securitized, the types of loan products made available, the terms on which loans are offered, consumer and business demand for loans, and the need for third party loan servicers. the risk retention rules themselves could have the effect of slowing the rebound in the securitization markets and, as a result, may impact the willingness of banks, including keybank, to make loans due to balance sheet management requirements. dodd-frank imposes a new regulatory regime on the u.s. derivatives markets. while some of the provisions related to derivatives markets went into effect on july 16, 2011, most of the new requirements await final regulations from the relevant regulatory agencies for derivatives, the commodities futures trading commission ( cftc ) and the sec. one aspect of this new regulatory regime for derivatives is that substantial oversight responsibility has been provided to the cftc, which, as a result, will for the first time have a meaningful supervisory role with respect to some of key businesses. although the ultimate impact will depend on the final regulations, key expects that its derivatives business will likely be subject to new substantive requirements, including registration with the cftc, margin requirements in excess of current market practice, capital requirements specific to this business, real time trade reporting and robust record keeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory clearing and exchange trading of all standardized swaps designated by the relevant regulatory agencies as required to be cleared. these requirements will collectively impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on key and will introduce additional legal risk (including as a result of newly applicable antifraud and antimanipulation provisions and private rights of action). depending on the final rules that relate to our swaps businesses, the nature and extent of those businesses may change. financial institutions may be required, regardless of risk, to pay taxes or other fees to the u.s. treasury. such taxes or other fees could be designed to reimburse the u.s. treasury for the many government programs and initiatives it has taken or may undertake as part of its economic stimulus efforts. it is clear that the reforms, both under the dodd-frank act and otherwise, will have a significant effect on our entire industry. although it is difficult to predict the magnitude and extent of these effects at this stage, we believe compliance with the dodd-frank act and its implementing regulations and other initiatives will likely negatively impact revenue and increase the cost of doing business, both in terms of transition expenses and on an ongoing basis, and may also limit our ability to pursue certain desirable business opportunities. any new regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements could require changes to our businesses, result in increased compliance costs and affect the profitability of such businesses. additionally, reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that we deal with in the course of our business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies and investors. heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations resulting from the dodd- frank act and the rules promulgated thereunder could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us. 17 table of contents we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors funds, the dif and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. these regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to repurchase our common shares, and growth, among other things. changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies; changes in the interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies; and/or continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways, and could have a material adverse effect on us. such changes will subject us to additional costs, may limit the types of financial services and products that we may offer as well as the investments that we may make and the manner in which we operate our businesses. these changes may increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products and could make them more attractive alternatives to customers. failure to appropriately comply with laws, regulations or policies (including internal policies and procedures designed to prevent such violations) could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies or self-regulatory organizations, civil money penalties, financial loss and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on us. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. we regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. we also maintain an erm program. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or a failure to establish appropriate controls or to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on us. iii . credit risks should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market further deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the fundamentals within the commercial real estate sector are improving but remain relatively weak, under continuing pressure by reduced asset values, high vacancies and reduced rents. commercial real estate values peaked in the fall of 2007, after gaining approximately 30% since 2005 and 90% since 2001. according to moody real estate analytics, llc commercial property index (november 2011), commercial real estate values were down 42% from their peak. a portion of our commercial real estate loans are construction loans. these properties are typically not fully leased at the origination of the loan, but the borrower may be reliant upon additional leasing through the life of the loan to provide cash flow to support debt service payments. if we experienced weaknesses similar to those experienced at the height of the economic downturn, then we would experience a slowing in the execution of new leases, which may also lead to existing lease turnover. the u.s. economy remains highly vulnerable, and any reversal in broad macro trends would threaten the nascent recovery in commercial real estate. the improvement of certain economic factors, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and rents, has continued to lag behind the overall economy, or not occur at all. these economic factors typically affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly. to illustrate this point, improvements in commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic recovery by 12 to 18 months. our clients include entities active in these industries. furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business, like ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, it could have a material adverse effect on us. should fundamentals deteriorate as a result of further decline in asset values and the instability of rental income, it could have a material adverse effect on us. 18 table of contents a failure to sustain reduced amounts of provision (credit) for loan and lease losses and provision (credit) for losses on lending-related commitments, which has benefitted results of operation in recent periods, could result in decreases in net income. as was typical in the banking industry, the economic downturn that started in 2007 resulted in key experiencing elevated levels of provision for loan and lease losses and provision for losses on lending-related commitments ( provision ). in the quarters from the fourth quarter of 2008 through the second quarter of 2010, key provision for credit losses ranged from $847 million to $218 million for such quarters. subsequently, in part due to improvement in economic conditions, as well as actions taken by us to manage our portfolio, key provision declined substantially and in some quarters was a negative provision, reaching an inflection point in the third quarter of 2010 when a negative provision of $88 million was recorded. this decline in the provision has been a major contributor to our ability to maintain and grow our net income during this period. if our provision were to rise back towards levels experienced during the height of the economic downturn, it would have an adverse effect on our net income and could result in lower levels of net income than we have reported in recent periods. declining asset prices could adversely affect us. during the recent recession from december 2007 to june 2009, the volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets experienced reached extreme levels. the severe market dislocations in 2008 led to the failure of several substantial financial institutions, causing widespread liquidation of assets and further constraining of the credit markets. these asset sales, along with asset sales by other leveraged investors, including some hedge funds, rapidly drove down prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded asset classes. asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of many of the asset categories represented on our balance sheet, and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable. for example, a further recession would likely reverse recent positive trends in asset prices. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. various factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to increase. we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense, that represents our estimate of losses within the existing portfolio of loans. the allowance is necessary to reserve for estimated loan and lease losses and risks incurred in the loan portfolio. the level of the allowance reflects our ongoing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan and lease loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions, and incurred losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, the stagnation of certain economic indicators that we are more susceptible to, such as unemployment and real estate values, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. in addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management. in addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses (i.e., if the loan and lease allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan and lease loss provisions to increase the allowance for loan and lease losses. should such additional provisions become necessary, they would result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to credit risk, in the form of changes in interest rates and/or changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate, which changes could adversely affect us. there are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading activities. these risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we 19 table of contents operate. increases in interest rates and/or further weakening of economic conditions caused by another recession or otherwise could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. as of december 31, 2011, approximately 70% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. we closely monitor and manage risk concentrations and utilize various portfolio management practices to limit excessive concentrations when it is feasible to do so; however, our loan portfolio still contains a number of commercial loans with relatively large balances. we also do business with environmentally sensitive industries and in connection with the development of brownfield sites that provide appropriate business opportunities. we monitor and evaluate our borrowers for compliance with environmental-related covenants, which include covenants requiring compliance with applicable law. we take steps to mitigate risks; however, should political or other changes make it difficult for certain of our customers to maintain compliance with applicable covenants, our credit quality could be adversely affected. the deterioration of a larger loan or a group of our loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which could result in net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. we also are subject to various laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment against us of civil money or other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on us. our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we operate. our success depends primarily on economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. we have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic areas where our branches are located the rocky mountains and northwest, the great lakes and the northeast as well as potential exposure to geographic areas outside of our branch footprint. for example, the nonowner-occupied properties segment of our commercial real estate portfolio has exposures in markets outside of our footprint. real estate values and cash flows have been negatively affected on a national basis due to weak economic conditions. certain markets, such as florida, southern california, phoenix, arizona, and las vegas, nevada, experienced more significant deterioration during the recession; real estate values in these markets in particular remain depressed. the delinquencies, nonperforming loans and charge-offs that we have experienced since 2007 have been more heavily weighted to these specific markets. the regional economic conditions in areas in which we conduct our business have an impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources, and, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on us. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. we measure, monitor, and mitigate our counterparty risks to reduce the risk of these exposures. these measures include daily position measurement and reporting, the use of scenario analysis and stress testing, replacement cost estimation, risk mitigation strategies, and market feedback validation. financial services institutions, however, are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. during 2008, key incurred $54 million 20 table of contents of derivative-related charges as a result of market disruption caused by the failure of lehman brothers. another example of losses related to this type of risk are the losses associated with the bernie madoff ponzi scheme ( madoff ponzi scheme ). as a result of the madoff ponzi scheme, our investment subsidiary, austin, determined that its funds had suffered investment losses up to $186 million. many of our routine transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. it is not possible to anticipate all of these risks and it is not feasible to mitigate these risks completely. there can be no assurance that our erm program will effectively mitigate these risks. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. we may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a negative impact on us. accordingly, these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. iv. liquidity risks capital requirements imposed by the dodd-frank act, together with new capital and liquidity standards adopted by the basel committee, will result in banks and bank holding companies needing to maintain more and higher quality capital than has historically been the case. new and evolving capital standards, both as a result of the dodd-frank act and the implementation of new capital standards adopted by the basel committee, including the so-called basel iii accord, will have a significant effect on banks and bank holding companies, including key. basel iii, among other things, narrows the definition of regulatory capital and establishes higher minimum risk-based capital ratios that, when fully phased-in, will require banking organizations, including key, to maintain a minimum tier 1 common ratio of 4.5%, a tier 1 capital ratio of 6.0%, and a total capital ratio of 8.0%. a capital conservation buffer of 2.5% above each of these levels also is required, which potentially may be supplemented by an additional countercyclical capital buffer. in addition, basel iii introduces new short-term liquidity and term funding standards, as well as a newly-defined leverage ratio. the capital standards adopted by the basel committee and expected to be implemented in the united states increase the capital requirements for specific types of exposures and require that unconsolidated investments in financial entities, mortgage servicing rights, and certain types of deferred tax assets above certain thresholds be deducted from regulatory capital. implementation of the new basel iii capital and liquidity standards as well as any additional heightened capital or liquidity standards that may be established by the federal reserve under the dodd-frank act remain subject to rulemaking in the u.s. and, in many cases, to extended observation and phase-in periods. as part of the implementation of basel iii, the federal reserve will promulgate rules providing for the phase-out of trust preferred securities as tier 1 risk-based capital for purposes of the regulatory capital guidelines for bank holding companies, as required by the dodd-frank act. currently, our trust preferred securities represent 10.4% of our tier 1 risk-based capital or $1.05 billion of tier 1 risk-based capital. by comparison, our non-cumulative preferred equity and our tier 1 common equity represent 2.9% and 86.7%, respectively, of our tier 1 risk-based capital, as of december 31, 2011. the anticipated phase-out (as eligible tier 1 risk-based capital) of our trust preferred securities will eventually result in us having less of a capital buffer above the well-capitalized regulatory standard of 6% of tier 1 risk-based capital. the federal reserve has indicated that it may make revisions to the basel iii liquidity standards. the full effect of these standards on key is uncertain at this time. the need to maintain more and higher quality capital as well as greater liquidity going forward could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. it could also result in our taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability 21 table of contents to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. in addition, the new liquidity standards could require us to increase our holdings of highly liquid short-term investments, thereby reducing our ability to invest in longer-term assets even if more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective. moreover, although these new requirements are being phased in over time, u.s. federal banking agencies have been taking into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of capital, such as dividend increases and share repurchases. there can be no assurance that the legislation and other initiatives undertaken by the united states government to restore long-term liquidity and stability to the u.s. financial system and reform financial regulation in the u.s. will help stabilize the u.s. financial system. since 2008, the federal government has intervened in an unprecedented manner in an effort to provide stability and liquidity to the financial markets. the federal reserve is currently maintaining a variety of monetary policy measures to stabilize the economy; these policy measures have been maintained by the fomc over the last few years as economic growth, unemployment and inflation have not been at levels mandated for the fomc to achieve. market liquidity issues have been alleviated somewhat, but u.s. economic indicators continue to present challenges for overall growth at levels mandated for the fomc to achieve, and the u.s. economy remains vulnerable. there can be no assurance regarding the actual impact that these government initiatives will have on the financial markets. the failure of the u.s. government programs to sufficiently contribute to financial market stability and put the u.s. economy on a stable path for an economic recovery could result in a worsening of current financial market conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on us. for example, during the liquidity crisis from late 2007 to 2009, regional financial institutions, like key, faced difficulties issuing debt in the fixed income debt markets; these conditions could return and pose difficulties for the issuance of both medium-term note and long-term subordinated note issuances. in the event that any of the various forms of turmoil experienced in the financial markets return or become exacerbated, there may be a material adverse effect on us from (i) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets, (ii) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our transaction counterparties specifically, (iii) limitations resulting from further governmental action to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (iv) further recessionary conditions. we rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our funds. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. with the exception of cash raised from debt and equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our cash flow from dividends from our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our equity securities and interest and principal on our debt. federal banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that keybank (our largest subsidiary) and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay to us. during 2008, 2009, 2010 and the first three quarters of 2011, keybank did not pay any dividends to us; nonbank subsidiaries paid us $25 million in dividends during 2010 and $45 million in dividends during 2011. during the fourth quarter of 2011, keybank paid $300 million in dividends to keycorp as it had sufficient capacity to pay dividends under its earnings retention test, which requires keybank to only pay dividends from retained earnings generated over the most recent two full years, plus the current year period. at january 1, 2012, keybank has capacity to pay $1.3 billion in dividends to keycorp under applicable supervisory guidance tests. for further information on the regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by keybank, see supervision and regulation capital of this report. also, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. in the event keybank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our equity securities. the inability to receive dividends from keybank could have a material adverse effect on us. 22 table of contents we are subject to changes in the financial markets which could adversely affect us. traditionally, market factors such as changes in foreign exchange rates; changes in interest rates, interest rate levels and credit spreads; changes in the equity markets; and changes in the financial soundness of bond insurers, sureties and other unrelated financial companies have the potential to affect current market values of financial instruments. during 2008, market events demonstrated this to an extreme. between july 2007 and october 2009, conditions in the fixed income markets, specifically the wider credit spreads over benchmark u.s. treasury securities for many fixed income securities, caused significant volatility in the market values of loans, securities, and certain other financial instruments that are held in our trading or held-for-sale portfolios. during the second half of 2010, credit spreads and availability of liquidity in the fixed income debt markets ameliorated with the conclusion of the recession and the beginning of the gradual recovery. as 2011 progressed, the european debt crisis caused credit spreads to widen and the availability of liquidity in the fixed income debt markets to be somewhat less abundant than during the second half of 2010. opportunities to minimize the adverse affects of market changes are not always available. substantial changes in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on us. our credit ratings affect our liquidity position. our rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of keycorp and keybank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors, some of which are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy. in light of the difficulties in the financial services industry, the financial markets and the economy, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. on december 6, 2011, s&amp;p announced a ratings review of 31 north american regional banks and their subsidiaries under its new bank ratings criteria announced november 9, 2011. s&amp;p updated its ratings outlook on both keycorp and keybank from stable to positive and maintained the ratings for keycorp and keybank. s&amp;p ratings for keycorp short-term borrowings and senior long-term debt are a-2 and bbb+, respectively, and keybank short-term borrowings, senior long-term debt and subordinated debt are rated a-2, a-, and bbb+, respectively. in light of the various changes in the ratings methodologies underway as a result of the dodd-frank act, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. if the securities of keycorp and/or keybank suffer ratings downgrades, such downgrades could adversely affect our access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, thereby reducing our ability to generate income. downgrades of the credit ratings of securities, particularly if they are below investment-grade, could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our funding levels. market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although we have implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on us. certain credit markets that we participate in and rely upon as sources of funding were significantly disrupted and volatile from the third quarter of 2007 through the third quarter of 2009. credit markets have improved since then, and we have significantly reduced our reliance on wholesale funding sources. part of our strategy to reduce liquidity risk involves promoting customer deposit growth, exiting certain noncore lending businesses, diversifying our funding base, maintaining a liquid asset portfolio, and strengthening our capital base to reduce our need for debt as a source of liquidity. many of these disrupted markets have shown signs of 23 table of contents recovery throughout 2011. nonetheless, if further market disruption or other factors reduce the cost effectiveness and/or the availability of supply in the credit markets for a prolonged period of time, should our funding needs necessitate it, we may need to expand our use of other potential means of accessing funding and managing liquidity such as generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, purchasing deposits from other banks, borrowing under certain secured wholesale facilities, and utilizing relationships developed with fixed income investors in a variety of markets, as well as increased management of loan growth and investment opportunities and other management tools. there can be no assurance that these alternative means of funding will be available; under certain stressed conditions experienced in the liquidity crisis during 2007-2009, some of these alternative means of funding were not available. should these forms of funding become unavailable, it is unclear what impact, given current economic conditions, unavailability of such funding would have on us. a deep and prolonged disruption in the markets could have the effect of significantly restricting the accessibility of cost effective capital and funding, which could have a material adverse effect on us. v. operational risks we are subject to operational risk. we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. these events include, among other things, threats to our cybersecurity, as we are reliant upon information systems and the internet to conduct certain of our business activities. we are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business, such as certain loan processing functions. additionally, some of our outsourcing arrangements are located overseas and, therefore, are subject to political risks unique to the regions in which they operate. although we seek to mitigate operational risk through a system of internal controls, resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation or foregone opportunities, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications and information systems (both internal and provided by third parties) to conduct our business. any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the possible failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it will be adequately addressed. we also maintain commercially reasonable measures to ensure cybersecurity of our information systems. other financial service institutions and companies have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyber attacks and other means. given the rapidly expanding and changing cybersecurity threat landscape that exists today, it is not commercially reasonable to expect that some sort of cybersecurity incident will never occur to key or the systems of any third-party providers key relies upon, including overseas providers. this is particularly true because the techniques used change frequently or are not recognized until launched and attacks can originate from a wide array of sources, including third parties outside the company, such as persons involved in organized crimes or associated with external service providers. those parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. these risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our offerings of mobile payments and other internet or web-based products. 24 table of contents a successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our own systems or third-party providers systems could cause serious negative consequences for key, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of confidential information of the company or that of our customers, or damage to our computers or operating systems or those of our customers and counterparties. we have adjusted our cybersecurity program to anticipate that a breach is more likely and have put a greater focus on detection and incident response. should these measures be insufficient, fail or be breached our operations could be adversely affected, possibly materially. the occurrence of any failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, including a cybersecurity breach of our systems implemented to protect our information systems security, could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. maintaining or increasing our market share may depend upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive prices for our products and services. the continuous, widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services and smart phones, requires us to evaluate our product and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services as well as our distribution of them to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks using smart phones utilizing paypal or a financial account associated with a smart phone. there is increasing pressure from our competitors, both bank and non-bank, to keep pace with evolving preferences of consumers and businesses. payment methods and financial service providers have evolved as the advancement of technology has made possible the delivery of financial products and services through different mediums and providers, such as smart phones and paypal accounts, thereby increasing competitive pressure in the delivery of financial products and services. the adoption of new technologies could require us to make substantial expenditures to modify our existing products and services. furthermore, we might not be successful in developing or introducing new products and services, adapting to changing consumer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance or regulatory approval, or sufficiently developing or maintaining a loyal customer base. the introduction of new products and services has the potential to introduce risk which, in turn, can present challenges to us in operating within our risk tolerances while also achieving growth in our market share. in addition, there is increasing pressure from our competitors to deliver products and services at lower prices. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. the loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have an adverse impact on us. these factors could reduce our revenues from our net interest margin and fee-based products and services and have a material adverse effect on us. we operate in a highly competitive industry and market areas. we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. such competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various markets in which we operate. we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional and national financial services firms. in recent years, while the breadth of the institutions that we compete with has increased, competition has intensified as a result of consolidation efforts. since 2009, competition has intensified as the challenges of the liquidity crisis and market disruption led to further redistribution of deposits and certain banking assets to strong and large financial institutions. we expect this trend to continue. the competitive 25 table of contents landscape was also affected by the conversion of traditional investment banks to bank holding companies during the liquidity crisis due to the access it provides to government-sponsored sources of liquidity. the financial services industry competitive landscape could become even more intensified as a result of legislative, regulatory, structural and technological changes and continued consolidation. also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; our ability to expand our market position; the rate at which we introduce new products and services as well as new technologies relative to our competitors; the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands; our ability to attract and retain talented executives and relationship managers; and industry and general economic trends. failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us. our earnings and/or financial condition may be affected by changes in accounting principles and in tax laws, or the interpretation of them. changes in or reinterpretations of u.s. generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on us. although these changes may not have an economic impact on our business, they could impact our financial statements thus affecting our performance ratios. like all businesses, we are subject to tax laws, rules and regulations. changes to tax laws, rules and regulations, including changes in the interpretation or implementation of tax laws, rules and regulations by the internal revenue service or other governmental bodies, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. failure to appropriately comply with tax laws, rules and regulations could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on us. additionally, we conduct quarterly assessments of our deferred tax assets. the carrying value of these assets is dependent upon earnings forecasts and prior period earnings. a significant change in our assumptions could affect the carrying value of our deferred tax assets on our balance sheet, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on us. potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; potential disruption to our business; potential diversion of our management time and attention; the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; difficulty in estimating the value (i.e., the assets and liabilities) of the target company; difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and derivatives of the target company; and potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. 26 table of contents we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. as a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to claims and litigation. from time to time, customers, vendors or other parties may make claims and take legal actions against us. we maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment that a loss is probable, consistent with applicable accounting guidance. at any given time we have a variety of legal actions asserted against us in various stages of litigation. resolution of a legal action can often take years. whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry. the legal changes to the consumer protection laws provided for by the dodd-frank act, the creation of the cfpb, and the uncertainty as to whether federal preemption of certain state consumer laws remains intact for federally chartered financial institutions like keybank and keycorp present additional legal risk to the financial services industry, including key. furthermore, we, like other members of the banking industry, may face additional regulatory and legal actions from state attorneys general, the cfpb and other parties related to consumer rights. there have also been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. any financial liability for which we have not adequately maintained reserves, and/or any reputation damage from such claims and legal actions, could have a material adverse effect on us. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want and/or need. to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, our performance, including our competitive position, could suffer, and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on us. although we have incentive compensation plans aimed, in part, at long-term employee retention, the unexpected loss of services of one or more of our key personnel could still occur, and such events may have a material adverse effect on us. various restrictions on compensation of certain executive offers were imposed under the recovery act, the dodd-frank act and other legislation or regulations. our ability to attract and/or retain talented executives and/or relationship managers may be affected by these developments or any new executive compensation limits, and such restrictions could have a material adverse effect on us. 27 table of contents severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. although we have established disaster recovery plans and procedures, and monitor for significant environmental effects on our properties or our investments, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on us. vi. risks to our common shares. you may not receive dividends on the common shares. holders of our common shares are only entitled to receive such dividends as the board of directors may declare out of funds legally available for such payments. furthermore, our common shareholders are subject to the prior dividend rights of any holders of our preferred stock or depositary shares representing such preferred stock then outstanding. as of february 17, 2012, there were 2,904,839 shares of keycorp series a preferred stock with a liquidation preference of $100 per share issued and outstanding. we paid a quarterly dividend on our common shares for each quarter of 2011. as long as our series a preferred stock is outstanding, dividend payments and repurchases or redemptions relating to certain equity securities, including our common shares, are prohibited until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid on such preferred stock, subject to certain limited exceptions. these factors could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. also, keycorp is a bank holding company and its ability to declare and pay dividends is dependent on certain federal regulatory considerations, including the guidelines of the federal reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. in addition, terms of keybank outstanding junior subordinated debt securities prohibit us from declaring or paying any dividends or distributions on keycorp capital stock, including its common shares, or purchasing, acquiring, or making a liquidation payment on such stock, if an event of default has occurred and is continuing under the applicable indenture, if we are in default with respect to a guarantee payment under the guarantee of the related capital securities or if we have given notice of our election to defer interest payments but the related deferral period has not yet commenced or a deferral period is continuing. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. our share price can be volatile. share price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common shares when you want and at prices you find attractive. our share price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; recommendation by securities analysts; operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our business; changes in the credit, mortgage and real estate markets, including the market for mortgage-related securities; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the financial services industry; perceptions of us and/or our competitors in the marketplace; new technology used, or products or services offered, by competitors; significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments entered into by us or our competitors; 28 table of contents failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; future sales of our equity or equity-related securities; our past and future dividend practices; changes in governmental regulations affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; changes in global financial markets, economies and market conditions, such as interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit or asset valuations or volatility; geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and the occurrence or nonoccurrence, as appropriate, of any circumstance described in these risk factors. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. an investment in our common shares is not an insured deposit. our common shares are not a bank deposit and, therefore, are not insured against loss by the fdic, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. investment in our common shares is inherently risky for the reasons described in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common shares in any company. as a result, if you acquire our common shares, you may lose some or all of your investment. our articles of incorporation and regulations, as well as certain banking laws, may have an anti-takeover effect. provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. the combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management in the md&amp;a beginning on page 80 is incorporated herein by reference. 104 table of contentsrisk factors an investment in our common shares or other securities is subject to risks inherent to our business and our industry. described below are certain risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of which could have a material and adverse effect on us. before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. although we have significant risk management policies, procedures and practices aimed at mitigating these risks, uncertainties may nevertheless impair our business operations. this report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or access to liquidity and/or credit could be materially and adversely affected ( material adverse effect on us ). if this were to happen, the value of our securities common shares, series a preferred stock, trust preferred securities and debt securities could decline, perhaps significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. our erm program identifies key major risk categories, including: market, compliance, credit, liquidity, and operational, together with reputation and strategic risks. the following risk factors are grouped into categories consistent with the five preceding main categories of risk focused on in our erm program, with an additional category for risks related to investment in our common shares. i. market risks the global financial markets continue to be strained as a result of economic slowdowns and concerns, especially about the creditworthiness of the european union and its member states and financial institutions in the european union. these factors could have international implications, which could hinder the u.s. economic recovery and affect the stability of global financial markets. certain european union member states have fiscal obligations greater than their fiscal revenue, which has caused investor concern over such countries ability to continue to service their debt and foster economic growth in their economies. during 2012, the european debt crisis caused spreads to widen in the fixed income debt markets and liquidity to be less abundant. while the situation has started to stabilize, the european debt crisis and measures adopted to address it have significantly weakened european economies. a weaker european economy may cause investors to lose confidence in the safety and soundness of european financial institutions and the stability of european member economies. 19 a failure to adequately address sovereign debt concerns in europe could hamper economic recovery or contribute to recessionary economic conditions and severe stress in the financial markets, including in the united states. potential events which could have such an impact on the financial markets include (i) sovereign debt default (default by one or more european governments in their borrowings), (ii) european bank and/or corporate debt default, (iii) market and other liquidity disruptions, and, (iv) if stresses become especially severe, and the collapse of the european union as a coherent economic group and/or the collapse of its currency, the euro. although a financial institution in the united states may have little to no exposure to european sovereign debt or euro-denominated assets, the european and american financial markets are substantially linked, especially through the federal reserve, which at times has offered stimulus funding to european governments, and through larger u.s. financial institutions, which invest in european assets and institutions. due to the interconnectedness of european and american financial markets, a liquidity freeze-up in europe could detrimentally impact key by causing, among other things, an increase in our cost of borrowed funds, an inability to borrow funds through conventional markets, negative impacts upon our counterparties and customers, especially those with european business relationships or european assets, and negative impacts upon the u.s. economy. should the global financial markets and the u.s. economic recovery be adversely impacted by these factors, the likelihood for loan and asset growth at u.s. financial institutions, like key, may deteriorate. any combination of these factors may have a material adverse effect on us. the u.s. economy remains vulnerable as the economic recovery continues to progress slowly. the u.s. economy showed signs of moderate growth during the second half of 2012, despite slow growth during the first half of the year, according to the fomc. despite signs of growth, the recovery of the u.s. economy continues to progress slowly. certain downside risks to the u.s. economy remain present. strains in the global financial markets pose significant risk to the u.s. economy. high unemployment and underemployment, the slow pace of job creation, and slowing growth in business fixed investment are additional factors of concern. fiscal austerity, in the form of higher taxes and spending cuts, would further hamper growth over the near-term, and policy uncertainty (another constraint on growth) may linger for some time. the u.s. economy could also be affected by the slowdown in economic activity abroad, especially in europe, and the significant fiscal challenges that remain for local governments in the u.s. the continuation or worsening of these factors could weaken the u.s. economic recovery underway. the downgrade of u.s. treasury securities by s&amp;p and political difficulties in addressing the economy within the u.s. government have contributed to high levels of volatility in the financial markets. should economic indicators deteriorate, the u.s. could face another recession, which could affect us in a variety of substantial and unpredictable ways, as well as affect our borrowers ability to meet their repayment obligations. we have taken steps since the 2008-2009 financial crisis to strengthen our liquidity position. nevertheless, a return of the volatile economic conditions recently experienced, including the adverse conditions in the fixed income debt markets, for an extended period of time, particularly if left unmitigated by policy measures, may have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect our earnings on loans and other interest-earning assets. our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the federal reserve. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits as well as the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on 20 loans and other investments, net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. our methods for simulating and analyzing our interest rate exposure are discussed more fully under the heading risk management interest rate risk management found in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. although we believe that we have implemented effective asset and liability management strategies, including simulation analysis and the use of interest rate derivatives as hedging instruments, to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on us. our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we operate. our success depends primarily on economic conditions in the markets in which we operate. we have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic areas where our branches are located the rocky mountains and northwest, the great lakes and the northeast as well as potential exposure to geographic areas outside of our branch footprint. for example, the nonowner-occupied properties segment of our commercial real estate portfolio has exposures in markets outside of our footprint. the delinquencies, nonperforming loans and charge-offs that we have experienced since 2007 have been more heavily weighted to these specific markets. real estate values and cash flows have been negatively affected on a national basis due to weak economic conditions. certain markets, such as florida, southern california, phoenix, arizona, and las vegas, nevada, experienced more significant deterioration during the recession; while values have stabilized over the past year, they remain well below peak levels across markets. the regional economic conditions in areas in which we conduct our business have an impact on the demand for our products and services as well as the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of our deposit funding sources, and, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on us. ii. compliance risks we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, which has increased in recent years due to the implementation of the dodd-frank act and other financial reform initiatives. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors funds, the dif and the banking system as a whole, not our debtholders or shareholders. these regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to repurchase our common shares, and growth, among other things. changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or their interpretation or implementation, and/or continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. such changes may subject us to additional compliance costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, affect the investments we make and the manner in which we operate our businesses, increase our litigation and regulatory costs should we fail to appropriately comply with such laws, regulations or policies, and increase the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report for further information. additionally, federal banking law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal banking regulators. this enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. if we were the subject of an enforcement action, it could have a material adverse effect on us. 21 the regulatory environment for the financial services industry is being significantly impacted by the financial regulatory reform initiatives in the united states, including the dodd-frank act and the regulations promulgated thereunder. the united states and other governments have undertaken major reforms of the regulatory oversight structure of the financial services industry. we have faced increased regulation of our industry, and will continue to face such regulation into 2013, as a result of current and future initiatives intended to provide economic stimulus, financial market stability, and enhancement of the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions. we have also faced increased regulation as a result of new efforts designed to protect consumers and investors from financial abuse. we also expect more intense scrutiny from our bank supervisors in the examination process and more aggressive enforcement of regulations on both the federal and state levels particularly due to both keybank and keycorp status as covered institutions for the enhanced prudential standards promulgated under the dodd-frank act. although many parts of the dodd-frank act are now in effect, other parts are still in the implementation stage, which is likely to continue for several years. accordingly, some uncertainty remains as to the aggregate impact upon key of the dodd-frank act as fully implemented. compliance with these new regulations and supervisory initiatives will likely increase our costs and reduce our revenue and may limit our ability to pursue certain desirable business opportunities and to take certain types of corporate actions. for more detailed information on the regulatory environment and the laws, rules and regulations that may affect us, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. iii. credit risks should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market further deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the fundamentals within the commercial real estate sector are improving but remain relatively weak, under continuing pressure by reduced asset values, high vacancies and reduced rents. commercial real estate values peaked in the fall of 2007. according to moody real estate analytics, llc commercial property index, commercial real estate values were down approximately 22% from their peak as of november 2012. a portion of our commercial real estate loans are construction loans. these properties are typically not fully leased at the origination of the loan, but the borrower may be reliant upon additional leasing through the life of the loan to provide cash flow to support debt service payments. if we experienced weaknesses similar to those experienced at the height of the economic downturn, then we would experience a slowing in the execution of new leases, which may also lead to existing lease turnover. the u.s. economy remains highly vulnerable, and any reversal in broad macro trends would threaten the nascent recovery in commercial real estate. the improvement of certain economic factors, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and rents, has continued to lag behind the overall economy, or not occur at all. these economic factors typically affect certain industries, such as real estate and financial services, more significantly. to illustrate this point, improvements in commercial real estate fundamentals typically lag broad economic recovery by 12 to 18 months. our clients include entities active in these industries. furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business, like ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. should unemployment or real estate asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, or fundamentals deteriorate as a result of further decline in asset values and the instability of rental income, it could have a material adverse effect on us. declining asset prices could adversely affect us. during the recession from december 2007 to june 2009, the volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets experienced reached extreme levels. the severe market dislocations in 2008 led to the failure of several substantial financial institutions, causing widespread liquidation of assets and further constraining of the credit 22 markets. these asset sales, along with asset sales by other leveraged investors, including some hedge funds, rapidly drove down prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded asset classes. asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of many of the asset categories represented on our balance sheet, and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable. for example, a further recession would likely reverse recent positive trends in asset prices. these factors could have a material adverse effect on us. various factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to increase. we maintain an allowance for loan and lease losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense, that represents our estimate of losses within the existing portfolio of loans. the allowance is necessary to reserve for estimated loan and lease losses and risks incurred in the loan portfolio. the level of the allowance reflects our ongoing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan and lease loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions, and incurred losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan and lease losses inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, the stagnation of certain economic indicators that we are more susceptible to, such as unemployment and real estate values, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan and lease losses. in addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review our allowance for loan and lease losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management. in addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan and lease losses (i.e., if the loan and lease allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan and lease loss provisions to increase the allowance for loan and lease losses. should such additional provisions become necessary, they would result in a decrease in net income and capital and may have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to credit risk, in the form of changes in interest rates, changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate, and/or changes in the financial condition of our counterparties, which changes could adversely affect us. there are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading activities. these risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where we operate. increases in interest rates and/or further weakening of economic conditions caused by another recession or otherwise could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. as of december 31, 2012, approximately 70% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. we also do business with environmentally sensitive industries and in connection with the development of brownfield sites that provide appropriate business opportunities. we monitor and evaluate our borrowers for compliance with environmental-related covenants, which include covenants requiring compliance with applicable law. should political or other changes make it difficult for certain of our customers to maintain compliance with applicable covenants, our credit quality could be adversely affected. the deterioration of a larger loan or a group of our loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which could result in net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, many of our routine transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized upon or is 23 liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. additionally, in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. we may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse effect on us. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties in the financial services industries, and we routinely execute transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. financial services institutions, however, are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. defaults by one or more financial services institutions have led to, and may cause, market-wide liquidity problems and losses. many of our transactions with other financial institutions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be impacted when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivatives exposure due us. any such losses could have a material adverse effect on us. iv. capital and liquidity risks capital requirements imposed by the dodd-frank act, together with new capital and liquidity standards adopted by the basel committee, will result in banks and bhcs needing to maintain more and higher quality capital than has historically been the case. new and evolving capital standards, both as a result of the dodd-frank act and the implementation of new capital standards adopted by the basel committee, including basel iii , will have a significant impact on banks and bhcs, including key. for a detailed explanation of basel iii and possible revisions to current capital rules, see the sections titled supervision and regulation and capital. the full effect of the federal reserve possible revisions to the basel iii liquidity standards on key is uncertain at this time. the need to maintain more and higher quality capital as well as greater liquidity going forward could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, either organically or through acquisitions. it could also result in our taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. in addition, the new liquidity standards could require us to increase our holdings of highly liquid short-term investments, thereby reducing our ability to invest in longer-term assets even if more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective. in addition, the federal reserve requires bank holding companies to obtain approval before making a capital distribution, such as paying or increasing dividends, implementing common stock repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. the federal reserve has set forth the processes that bank holding companies should have in place to ensure they hold adequate capital under adverse conditions to maintain ready access to funding before engaging in any of these activities. these rules could limit key ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report there can be no assurance that the legislation and other initiatives undertaken by the united states government will continue to support increased stability in the u.s. financial system. since 2008, the federal government has intervened in an unprecedented manner in an effort to provide stability and liquidity to the financial markets. the federal reserve is currently maintaining a variety of monetary policy measures to stabilize the economy; these policy measures have been maintained by the fomc over the last few years as economic growth, unemployment and inflation have not been at levels mandated for the fomc to achieve. 24 market liquidity issues have been alleviated somewhat, but u.s. growth still lags levels mandated for the fomc to achieve, and the u.s. economy remains vulnerable. in addition, while the situation in europe has stabilized somewhat, the region recession and ongoing fiscal challenges remain important risks to the u.s. economy. there can be no assurance regarding the actual impact that these government initiatives will have on the financial markets. the failure of the u.s. government programs to sufficiently contribute to financial market stability and put the u.s. economy on a stable path for an economic recovery could result in a worsening of current financial market conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on us. in the event that any of the various forms of turmoil experienced in the financial markets return or become exacerbated, there may be a material adverse effect on us from (i) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets, (ii) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our transaction counterparties specifically, (iii) limitations resulting from further governmental action to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (iv) further recessionary conditions. we rely on dividends from our subsidiaries for most of our funds. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. with the exception of cash raised from debt and equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our cash flow from dividends from our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our equity securities and interest and principal on our debt. federal banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that keybank (keycorp largest subsidiary) can pay. for further information on the regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by keybank, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. in the event keybank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our equity securities. our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. the inability to receive dividends from keybank could have a material adverse effect on us. our credit ratings affect our liquidity position. our rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of keycorp and keybank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors, some of which are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy. in light of the difficulties in the financial services industry, the financial markets and the economy, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. on october 18, 2012, s&amp;p maintained its positive outlook rating for each of keycorp and keybank. s&amp;p ratings for keycorp short-term borrowings and senior long-term debt are a-2 and bbb+, respectively, and keybank short-term borrowings, senior long-term debt and subordinated debt are rated a-2, a-, and bbb+, respectively. in light of the various changes in the ratings methodologies underway as a result of the dodd-frank act, there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current ratings. if the securities of keycorp and/or keybank suffer ratings downgrades, such downgrades could adversely affect our access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, thereby reducing our ability to generate income. downgrades of the credit ratings of securities, particularly if they are below investment-grade, could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our funding levels. market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. 25 although we have implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions, any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on us. certain credit markets that we participate in and rely upon as sources of funding were significantly disrupted and volatile from the third quarter of 2007 through the third quarter of 2009. credit markets have improved since then, and we have significantly reduced our reliance on wholesale funding sources. part of our strategy to reduce liquidity risk involves promoting customer deposit growth, exiting certain noncore lending businesses, diversifying our funding base, maintaining a liquid asset portfolio, and strengthening our capital base to reduce our need for debt as a source of liquidity. many of these disrupted markets have shown signs of recovery throughout 2012. nonetheless, if further market disruption or other factors reduce the cost effectiveness and/or the availability of supply in the credit markets for a prolonged period of time, should our funding needs necessitate it, we may need to expand our use of other potential means of accessing funding and managing liquidity such as generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, purchasing deposits from other banks, borrowing under certain secured wholesale facilities, and utilizing relationships developed with fixed income investors in a variety of markets, as well as increased management of loan growth and investment opportunities and other management tools. there can be no assurance that these alternative means of funding will be available; under certain stressed conditions experienced in the liquidity crisis during 2007-2009, some of these alternative means of funding were not available. should these forms of funding become unavailable, it could have a material adverse effect on us. v. operational risks we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including among others, our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives. our strategic priorities include growing revenue and reducing expenses through targeted investments, technology enhancements and streamlining our operations. as part of our efficiency initiative, we have committed to achieving an annual expense run rate reduction of $150 to $200 million by december 2013 and a cash efficiency ratio in the target range of 60% to 65% by the first quarter of 2014. there may be unanticipated difficulties in implementing our efficiency initiative, and there can be no assurance that we will ultimately realize the full benefits of, or be able to sustain the annual cost savings anticipated by, our efficiency initiative. our inability to achieve the anticipated outcomes of our stated strategies may affect how the market perceives us and could impede our growth and profitability. our strategic priorities also include developing, maintaining and building long-term customer relationships based on quality service and competitive prices. our failure to execute our strategic initiatives relating to any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to operational risk. we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. operational risk includes the risk of fraud by employees, clerical and record-keeping errors, nonperformance by vendors, threats to cybersecurity, and computer/telecommunications malfunctions. operational risk also encompasses compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as well as the risk of our noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. we are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business, such as certain loan processing functions. for example, break-downs or failures of our vendors systems or employees could be a source of operational risk to us. additionally, some of our outsourcing arrangements are located overseas and, therefore, are subject to political risks unique to the regions in which they operate. 26 resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation, inability to secure insurance, litigation, regulatory intervention or sanctions or foregone business opportunities, any and all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. we regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. we also maintain an erm program. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or a failure to establish appropriate controls or to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on us. our methods of reducing risk exposure might not be effective. instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of market compliance, credit, liquidity, operational and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. as a result, we may not be able to effectively mitigate our risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk, which could have a material adverse effect on us. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications, information systems (both internal and provided by third parties) and the internet to conduct our business. our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of daily transactions in compliance with legal, regulatory and internal standards and specifications. in addition, a significant portion of our operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of personal and confidential information, such as the personal information of our customers and clients. these risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase mobile payments and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications. while we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of a possible failure, interruption or breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that such action will not occur or, if any does occur, that it will be adequately addressed. for example, although we maintain commercially reasonable measures to ensure the cybersecurity of our information systems, other financial service institutions and companies have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems. in addition, several u.s. financial institutions, including key, have recently experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks, some of which involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems. other potential attacks have attempted to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information or destroy data, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyberattacks and other means. to date, none of these efforts has had a material effect on our business or operations. such security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including persons who are involved with organized crime or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. those same parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. although we have adjusted our cybersecurity program to anticipate that a breach is more likely and have placed a greater focus on detection and incident response, our security systems may not be able to protect our information systems from similar attacks due to the rapid evolution and creation of sophisticated cyberattacks. we are also subject to the risk that our employees may intercept and transmit unauthorized confidential or proprietary information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action and reputational harm. 27 we are also increasingly reliant on third party service providers to perform significant operational services on our behalf. these third party providers are subject to the same risks relating to cybersecurity, break-downs or failures of their own systems or employees. while we make every effort to mitigate these risks through specific contractual obligations relating to security and strong oversight of these service providers, there can be no assurance that one or more of our third party service providers will not experience a cybersecurity event or operational disruption and, if any such event does occur, that it will be adequately addressed. any failure, interruption or breach in security of our information systems or those of our third party service providers could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. these risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase our offerings of mobile payments and other internet or web-based products. notwithstanding our efforts to maintain business continuity, a disruptive event impacting the infrastructure that supports our business, such as a failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, could adversely affect our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. we are subject to claims and litigation. from time to time, customers, vendors or other parties may make claims and take legal actions against us. we maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment that a loss is probable, consistent with applicable accounting guidance. at any given time we have a variety of legal actions asserted against us in various stages of litigation. resolution of a legal action can often take years. whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number and risk of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry due to legal changes to the consumer protection laws provided for by the dodd-frank act, the creation of the cfpb, and the uncertainty as to whether federal preemption of certain state consumer laws remains intact for federally chartered financial institutions like keybank and keycorp. a weakening of federal pre-emption would potentially increase our compliance and operational costs and risks since we are a national bank with multi-state operations and customers and we would potentially face state and local enforcement activity. there have also been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. any financial liability for which we have not adequately maintained reserves, and/or any damage to our reputation from such claims and legal actions, could have a material adverse effect on us. severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. although we 28 have established disaster recovery plans and procedures, and monitor for significant environmental effects on our properties or our investments, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on us. vi. strategic and reputation risks we operate in a highly competitive industry. we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. such competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various markets in which we operate. we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional and national financial services firms. in recent years, competition has intensified due to substantial consolidation among companies in the financial services industry, a trend that may continue. the competitive landscape was also affected by the liquidity crisis, which led to the conversion of traditional investment banks to bank holding companies due to the access it provides to government-sponsored sources of liquidity. in addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. we expect the competitive landscape of the financial services industry to become even more intensified as a result of legislative, regulatory, structural and technological changes. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among others, our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; developing, maintaining and building long-term customer relationships based on quality service, competitive prices, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets; and industry and general economic trends. increased competition in the financial services industry, and our failure to perform in any of these areas, could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability and have a material adverse effect on us. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most activities in which we are engaged can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want and/or need. to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. various restrictions on compensation of certain executive officers were imposed under the dodd-frank act and other legislation and regulations. in addition, our incentive compensation structure is subject to review by the federal reserve, which may identify deficiencies in the structure, causing us to make changes that may affect our ability to offer competitive compensation to these individuals. our ability to attract and retain talented employees may be affected by these developments, or any new executive compensation limits and regulations, and such restrictions could have a material adverse effect on us. maintaining or increasing our market share may depend upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive prices for our products and services. the continuous, widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services and smart phones, requires us to evaluate our product and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services, as well as our distribution of them, to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. new technologies have altered consumer behavior by allowing consumers to complete transactions such as paying bills and/or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks, while new services allow consumers to maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have 29 historically been held as bank deposits. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and related income generated from those deposits. the increasing pressure from our competitors, both bank and non-bank, to keep pace and adopt new technologies and products and services requires us to incur substantial expenditures. we may be unsuccessful in developing or introducing new products and services, modifying our existing products and services, adapting to changing consumer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance or regulatory approval, sufficiently developing or maintaining a loyal customer base or offering products and services at prices lower than the prices offered by our competitors. these risks may affect our ability to achieve growth in our market share and could reduce both our revenue streams from certain products and services and our revenues from our net interest margin and fee-based products and services, all factors which may have a material adverse effect on us. our failure to effectively cross-sell our products and services to customers could have a negative effect on our revenue growth and financial results. selling more products or services to our customers, or cross-selling , is an integral part of our business model and is key to our ability to grow revenue and earnings during the current period of slow economic growth and regulatory reform. many of our competitors also focus on cross-selling, especially in retail banking and mortgage lending. this can limit our ability to sell more products to our customers or influence us to sell our products at lower prices, reducing our net interest income and revenue from our fee-based products. it could also affect our ability to retain our existing customers. as our competitors increase their cross-selling efforts and new technologies require us to spend more to modify or adapt our products to attract and retain customers, we may face difficulties in increasing our cross-selling ratio, or the average number of products sold to existing customers. our failure to sell additional products or services to our existing or new customers who instead purchase such products from our competitors could have a material adverse effect on us. damage to our reputation could significantly harm our businesses. our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors and highly-skilled management and employees is impacted by our reputation. public perception of the financial services industry declined since the recent downturn in the u.s. economy. we continue to face increased public and regulatory scrutiny resulting from the financial crisis and economic downturn. significant harm to our reputation can also arise from other sources, including employee misconduct, actual or perceived unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum or required standards of service and quality, compliance failures, disclosure of confidential information, and the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors. actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry can also significantly adversely affect our reputation. we could also suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interests has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the actual or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, which could adversely affect our businesses. our actual or perceived failure to address these and other issues gives rise to reputational risk that could cause significant harm to us and our business prospects, and may have a material adverse effect on us. potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. acquiring other banks, businesses, or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including: potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; 30 difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; potential disruption to our business; potential diversion of our management time and attention; the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; difficulty in estimating the value (i.e., the assets and liabilities) of the target company; difficulty in estimating the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities and derivatives of the target company; and potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. as a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on us. vii. risks to our common shares an investment in our common shares is not an insured deposit. our common shares are not a bank deposit and, therefore, are not insured against loss by the fdic, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. investment in our common shares is inherently risky for the reasons described in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common shares in any company. as a result, if you acquire our common shares, you may lose some or all of your investment. our articles of incorporation and regulations, as well as certain banking laws, may have an anti-takeover effect. provisions of our articles of incorporation and regulations and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. the combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management in the md&amp;a beginning on page 77 is incorporated herein by reference. 107risk factors as a financial services organization, we are subject to a number of risks inherent in our transactions and present in the business decisions we make. described below are the primary risks and uncertainties that if realized could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and our access to liquidity. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. our erm program incorporates risk management throughout our organization to identify, understand, and manage the risks presented by our business activities. our erm program identifies key major risk categories as: credit risk, compliance risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, market risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, and model risk. these risk factors, and other risks we may face, are discussed in more detail in other sections of this report. i. credit risk should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the u.s. economy remains vulnerable, and any reversal in broad macro trends would threaten the nascent recovery in commercial real estate. the improvement of certain economic factors, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and rents, has continued to lag behind the overall economy. these economic factors generally affect certain industries like real estate and financial services more significantly. a significant portion of our clients are active in these industries. furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business, like ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. a portion of our commercial real estate loans are construction loans. typically these properties are not fully leased at loan origination; the borrower may require additional leasing through the life of the loan to provide cash flow to support debt service payments. if we experienced weaknesses similar to those experienced at the height of the economic downturn, then we would experience a slowing in the execution of new leases, which may also lead to existing lease turnover. we are subject to the risk of defaults by our loan counterparties and clients. many of our routine transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due to us. in deciding whether to extend 18 table of contents credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of counterparties and clients, including financial statements, credit reports and other information. we may also rely on representations of those counterparties, clients, or other third parties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. the inaccuracy of that information or those representations affects our ability to accurately evaluate the default risk of a counterparty or client. various factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to increase. we maintain an alll (a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense) that represents our estimate of losses based on our evaluation of risks within our existing portfolio of loans. the level of the allowance reflects our ongoing evaluation of industry concentrations, specific credit risks, loan and lease loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political and regulatory conditions, and incurred losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the alll inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, the stagnation of certain economic indicators that we are more susceptible to, such as unemployment and real estate values, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may require an increase in the alll. bank regulatory agencies periodically review our alll and, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management, may require an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. in addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the alll (i.e., if the loan and lease allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan and lease loss provisions to increase the alll, which would decrease our net income and capital. declining asset prices could adversely affect us. during the recession from december 2007 to june 2009, the volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets experienced reached extreme levels. the severe market disruption in 2008 led to the failure of several substantial financial institutions, causing the widespread liquidation of assets and constraining the credit markets. these asset sales, along with asset sales by other leveraged investors, including some hedge funds, rapidly drove down prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded asset classes. asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of many of the asset categories represented on our balance sheet, and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable. a further recession would likely reverse recent positive trends in asset prices. we have heightened credit exposure in high-balance loans and loans in environmentally sensitive industries. as of december 31, 2013, approximately 70% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. we also do business with environmentally sensitive industries and in connection with the development of brownfield sites that provide appropriate business opportunities. we monitor and evaluate our borrowers for compliance with environmental-related covenants, which include covenants requiring compliance with applicable law. should political or other changes make it difficult for certain of our customers to maintain compliance with applicable covenants, our credit quality could be adversely affected. the deterioration of a larger loan or a group of our loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which could result in net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs. 19 table of contents ii. compliance risks we are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, which has increased in recent years due to the implementation of the dodd-frank act and other financial reform initiatives. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors funds, the dif and the banking system as a whole, not our debtholders or shareholders. these regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to repurchase our common shares, and growth, among other things. changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or their interpretation or implementation, and continuing to become subject to heightened regulatory practices, requirements or expectations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. these changes may subject us to additional compliance costs and increase our litigation and regulatory costs should we fail to appropriately comply. such changes may also limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, affect the investments we make, and change the manner in which we operate. for more information, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. additionally, federal banking law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal banking regulators. this enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and affiliated parties. these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. the regulatory environment for the financial services industry is being significantly affected by financial regulatory reform initiatives, including the dodd-frank act. the united states and other governments have undertaken major reforms of the regulatory oversight structure of the financial services industry. we have faced increased regulation of our industry, and will continue to face such regulation into 2014, as a result of current and future initiatives intended to provide financial market stability and enhance the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions. we also faced increased regulation from efforts designed to protect consumers from financial abuse. we expect continued intense scrutiny from our bank supervisors in the examination process and aggressive enforcement of regulations on the federal and state levels, particularly due to keybank and keycorp status as covered institutions under the enhanced prudential standards promulgated under the dodd-frank act. although many parts of the dodd-frank act are now in effect, other parts will continue to be implemented over the next few years. as a result, some uncertainty remains as to the aggregate impact upon key of the dodd-frank act as fully implemented. compliance with these new regulations and supervisory initiatives has and will continue to increase our costs, may reduce our revenue and limit our ability to pursue certain desirable business opportunities, and limit our ability to take certain types of corporate actions. for more detailed information on the regulatory environment and the laws, rules and regulations that may affect us, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. changes in accounting policies, rules and interpretations could materially affect how we report our financial results and condition. the fasb, regulatory agencies, and other bodies that establish accounting standards from time to time change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of key financial statements. additionally, those bodies that establish and interpret the accounting standards (such as the fasb, sec, and banking regulators) may change or even reverse prior interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how key records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, key could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results. 20 table of contents iii. capital and liquidity risk capital and liquidity requirements imposed by the dodd-frank act will require banks and bhcs to maintain more and higher quality capital than has historically been the case. new and evolving capital standards resulting from the dodd-frank act and the regulatory capital rules adopted by our regulators will have a significant impact on banks and bhcs, including key. for a detailed explanation of recently adopted capital and liquidity rules, see the section titled regulatory capital and liquidity under the heading supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. the full effect of the federal reserve proposed liquidity standards on key is uncertain at this time. however, the need to maintain more and higher quality capital, together with new requirements for greater liquidity, could limit our business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand organically or through acquisitions. it could also result in our taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. in addition, new liquidity standards could require us to increase our holdings of highly liquid short- term investments, or change our mix of funding alternatives, and may impact business relationships with certain customers. it could reduce our ability to invest in longer-term assets even if more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective. in addition, the federal reserve requires bank holding companies to obtain approval before making a capital distribution, such as paying or increasing dividends, implementing common stock repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. the federal reserve has detailed the processes that bank holding companies should maintain to ensure they hold adequate capital under severely adverse conditions and have ready access to funding before engaging in any capital activities. these rules could limit key ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. for more information, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. federal agencies may no longer support current initiatives or may not implement new initiatives to support the stability of the u.s. financial system. since 2008, the federal government has taken unprecedented steps to provide stability to and confidence in the financial markets. for example, the federal reserve maintains a variety of stimulus policy measures designed to maintain a low interest rate environment, including its monthly purchases of treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities, to help stabilize the economy given the fomc legal mandates to maximize employment, maintain stable prices, and moderate long-term interest rates. in light of recent moderate improvements in the u.s. economy, federal agencies may no longer continue to support current initiatives. the federal reserve announced in december 2013 it will taper its monthly purchases of treasury bonds and mortgage-backed securities as the economy continues to improve. the discontinuation of market-supporting government and agency initiatives, particularly a sudden discontinuation, may have a negative impact, perhaps severe, on the financial markets. these effects could include a sudden move to higher debt yields, which could have a chilling effect on borrowing. in addition, new initiatives or legislation may not be implemented to counter any negative effects of discontinuing programs or, in the event of an economic downturn, to support and stabilize a troubled economy. even if new legislation or initiatives were necessary, it is uncertain that any legislation or initiative could be implemented in a timely fashion or at all in the current political climate. additionally, any program implemented or legislation enacted to counter the effects of program discontinuation or a sudden economic downturn may be insufficient to support financial market stability or promote u.s. economic recovery. we rely on dividends by our subsidiaries for most of our funds. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. with the exception of cash that we raise from debt and equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our cash flow from dividends by our subsidiaries. these dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on our equity securities and interest and principal on 21 table of contents our debt. federal banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that keybank (keycorp largest subsidiary) can pay. for further information on the regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by keybank, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. in the event keybank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our equity securities. in addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. we are subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our funding levels. market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although we have implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets and liabilities under both normal and adverse conditions (including by reducing our reliance on wholesale funding sources), a substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on us. certain credit markets that we participate in and rely upon as sources of funding experienced significant disruption and volatility during the 2008 financial crisis. while these disrupted markets have shown signs of recovery, if the cost effectiveness or the availability of supply in these credit markets is reduced for a prolonged period of time, our funding needs may require us to access funding and manage liquidity by other means. these alternatives may include generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, purchasing deposits from other banks, borrowing under certain secured wholesale facilities, using relationships developed with a variety of fixed income investors, and further managing loan growth and investment opportunities. these alternative means of funding may not be available under stressed conditions similar to those experienced in the liquidity crisis of 2007-2009. our credit ratings affect our liquidity position. our rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of keycorp and keybank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors. some of these factors are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy and changes in rating methodologies as a result of the dodd-frank act. there can be no assurance that we will maintain our current credit ratings. a downgrade of the securities of keycorp or keybank could adversely affect our access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, reducing our ability to generate income. iv. operational risk our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications, information systems (both internal and provided by third parties) and the internet to conduct our business. our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of daily transactions in compliance with legal, regulatory and internal standards and specifications. in addition, a significant portion of our operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of personal and confidential information, such as the personal information of our customers and clients. these risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase mobile payments and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications. in the event of a failure, interruption or breach of our information systems, we may be unable to avoid impact to our customers. other u.s. financial service institutions and companies have reported breaches in the security of 22 table of contents their websites or other systems and several financial institutions, including key, experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks, some of which involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems. other potential attacks have attempted to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information or destroy data, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, cyberattacks and other means. to date, none of these efforts has had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. such security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including persons who are involved with organized crime or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. those same parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. our security systems may not be able to protect our information systems from similar attacks due to the rapid evolution and creation of sophisticated cyberattacks. we are also subject to the risk that our employees may intercept and transmit unauthorized confidential or proprietary information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action and reputational harm. we rely on third parties to perform significant operational services for us. third parties perform significant operational services on our behalf. these third-party vendors are subject to similar risks as key relating to cybersecurity, breakdowns or failures of their own systems or employees. one or more of our vendors may experience a cybersecurity event or operational disruption and, if any such event does occur, it may not be adequately addressed, either operationally or financially, by the third-party vendor. certain of our vendors may have limited indemnification obligations or may not have the financial capacity to satisfy their indemnification obligations. financial or operational difficulties of a vendor could also impair our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor ability to serve us. additionally, some of our outsourcing arrangements are located overseas and, therefore, are subject to risks unique to the regions in which they operate. if a critical vendor is unable to meet our needs in a timely manner or if the services or products provided by such a vendor are terminated or otherwise delayed and if we are not able to develop alternative sources for these services and products quickly and cost-effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. federal banking regulators recently issued regulatory guidance on how banks select, engage and manage their outside vendors. these regulations may affect the circumstances and conditions under which we work with third parties and the cost of managing such relationships. we are subject to claims and litigation. from time to time, customers, vendors or other parties may make claims and take legal action against us. we maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment that a loss is probable, consistent with applicable accounting guidance. at any given time we have a variety of legal actions asserted against us in various stages of litigation. resolution of a legal action can often take years. whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number and risk of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry due to legal changes to the consumer protection laws provided for by the dodd-frank act and the creation of the cfpb. there have also been a number of highly publicized legal claims against financial institutions involving fraud or misconduct by employees, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. 23 table of contents we are subject to operational risk. we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. operational risk includes the risk of fraud by employees, clerical and record-keeping errors, nonperformance by vendors, threats to cybersecurity, and computer/telecommunications malfunctions. operational risk also encompasses compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as well as the risk of our noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. we are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business, such as certain loan processing functions. for example, breakdowns or failures of our vendors systems or employees could be a source of operational risk to us. resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation, inability to secure insurance, litigation, regulatory intervention or sanctions or foregone business opportunities. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, and our methods of reducing risk exposure may not be effective. we regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. we also maintain an erm program. any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. additionally, instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of market compliance, credit, liquidity, operational and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. as a result, we may not be able to effectively mitigate our risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk. severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue or cause us to incur additional expenses. v. market risk a reversal of the fragile u.s. economic recovery and a return to volatile or recessionary conditions in the u.s. or abroad could negatively affect our business or our access to capital markets. the slow economic recovery, and multiple downside shocks, have presented a challenge for key and adversely affected our business and financial performance. these economic conditions may persist for some time, and continue to have a negative impact on us. a worsening of conditions could aggravate the adverse effects of these difficult economic and market conditions on key and others in the financial services industry. risks related to the global economy have eased somewhat, but challenges remain. in particular, we would face some of the following risks, and other unforeseeable risks, in connection with a downturn in the economic and market environment, whether in domestic or international markets: a loss of confidence in the financial services industry and the equity markets by investors, placing pressure on the price of key common shares or decreasing the credit or liquidity available to key; a decrease in consumer and business confidence levels, generally, decreasing credit usage and investment or increasing delinquencies and defaults; 24 table of contents a decrease in household or corporate incomes, reducing demand for key products and services; a decrease in the value of collateral securing loans to key borrowers or a decrease in the quality of key loan portfolio, increasing loan charge-offs and reducing key net income; a decrease in our ability to liquidate positions at market prices; the prolonged continuation of a very low interest rate environment, increasing downward pressure to our net interest income; a decrease in the accuracy and viability of our quantitative models; an increase in competition and consolidation in the financial services industry; increased concern over and scrutiny of the capital and liquidity levels of financial institutions, generally, and those of our transaction counterparties, specifically; a decrease in confidence in the creditworthiness of the united states or other governments whose securities we hold; and an increase in limitations on or the regulation of financial services companies like key. we are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect our earnings on loans and other interest-earning assets. our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the federal reserve. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities, the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, and the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could be adversely affected. earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. our methods for simulating and analyzing our interest rate exposure are discussed more fully under the heading risk management management of interest risk exposure found in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. our profitability depends upon economic conditions in the geographic regions where we have significant operations and on certain market segments with which we conduct significant business. we have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic regions where our bank branches are located oregon and alaska; washington; rocky mountains; indiana; west ohio/michigan; east ohio; eastern new york; new england; and western new york and potential exposure to geographic regions outside of our branch footprint. the moderate u.s. economic recovery has been experienced unevenly in the various regions where we operate, and there can be no assurance that continued improvement in the overall u.s. economy will result in similar improvement, or any improvement at all, in the economy of any particular geographic region. adverse conditions in a geographic region such as inflation, unemployment, recession, natural disasters, or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of borrowers in these regions to repay their loans, decrease the value of collateral securing loans made in these regions, or affect the ability of our customers in these regions to continue conducting business with us. 25 table of contents additionally, a significant portion of our business activities are concentrated with the real estate, health care and utilities market segments. the profitability of some of these market segments depends upon the health of the overall economy, seasonality, the impact of regulation, and other factors that are beyond our control and may be beyond the control of our customers in these market segments. an economic downturn in one or more geographic regions where we conduct our business, or any significant or prolonged impact on the profitability of one or more of the market segments with which we conduct significant business activity, could adversely affect the demand for our products and services, the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of our deposit funding sources. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties in the financial services industries, and we routinely execute transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. financial services institutions, however, are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. defaults by one or more financial services institutions have led to, and may cause, market-wide liquidity problems and losses. many of our transactions with other financial institutions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be affected when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivatives exposure due us. vi. reputation risk damage to our reputation could significantly harm our businesses. our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors, and highly-skilled management and employees is affected by our reputation. public perception of the financial services industry has declined since the 2008 financial crisis. we face increased public and regulatory scrutiny resulting from the financial crisis and economic downturn. significant harm to our reputation can also arise from other sources, including employee misconduct, actual or perceived unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum or required standards of service and quality, compliance failures, disclosure of confidential information, and the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors. actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry can also significantly adversely affect our reputation. we could also suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interests has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the actual or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, which could adversely affect our businesses. vii. strategic risk we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including among others, our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives. our strategic priorities include growing revenue, building and maintaining long-term customer relationships, maintaining financial strength, and building on our culture of efficiency. enhancing relationships with our customers, including by cross-selling additional or new products to them, is very important to our business model and our ability to grow revenue and earnings. our inability to execute on or achieve the anticipated outcomes of our strategic priorities may affect how the market perceives us and could impede our growth and profitability. 26 table of contents we operate in a highly competitive industry. we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of competitors, some of which are larger and may have more financial resources than us. our competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various geographic regions in which we operate. we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional and national financial services firms. in addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. in recent years, mergers and acquisitions have led to greater concentration in the banking industry, placing added competitive pressure on key core banking products and services. we expect the competitive landscape of the financial services industry to become even more intensified as a result of legislative, regulatory, structural and technological changes. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain and build long-term customer relationships based on quality service and competitive prices; maintaining our high ethical standards and safe and sound assets; and industry and general economic trends. increased competition in the financial services industry, and our failure to perform in any of these areas, could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. maintaining or increasing our market share depends upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive prices. the continuous, widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services and smart phones, requires us to evaluate our product and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services, as well as our distribution of them, to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. new technologies have altered consumer behavior by allowing consumers to complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. new products allow consumers to maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and related income generated from those deposits. the increasing pressure from our competitors, both bank and nonbank, to keep pace and adopt new technologies and products and services requires us to incur substantial expense. we may be unsuccessful in developing or introducing new products and services, modifying our existing products and services, adapting to changing consumer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance or regulatory approval, sufficiently developing or maintaining a loyal customer base or offering products and services at prices lower than the prices offered by our competitors. these risks may affect our ability to achieve growth in our market share and could reduce both our revenue streams from certain products and services and our revenues from our net interest margin. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. competition for the best people in most of our business activities can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want or need. to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate such employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. various restrictions on compensation of certain executive officers were imposed under the dodd-frank act and other legislation and regulations. in addition, our incentive compensation structure is subject to review by the 27 table of contents federal reserve, which may identify deficiencies in the structure, causing us to make changes that may affect our ability to offer competitive compensation to these individuals. our ability to attract and retain talented employees may be affected by these developments, or any new executive compensation limits and regulations. potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. acquiring other banks, bank branches, or other businesses involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company, diversion of our management time and attention, and the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions. as a result, mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values. therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share could occur in connection with any future transaction. additionally, if an acquisition were to occur, we may fail to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, or other projected benefits. viii. model risk we rely on quantitative models to manage certain accounting, risk management and capital planning functions. we use quantitative models to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating probable loan losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, managing risk, and for capital planning purposes (including during the ccar capital planning process). our measurement methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may be incorrect, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect this evolution. even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model design. as a result, our models may not capture or fully express the risks we face, may suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we do not, or may lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we will operate. if our models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, we may not make appropriate risk management, capital planning, or other business or financial decisions. furthermore, strategies that we employ to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective or fully reliable. banking regulators continue to focus on the models used by banks and bank holding companies in their businesses. the failure or inadequacy of a model may result in increased regulatory scrutiny on us or may result in an enforcement action or proceeding against us by one of our regulators. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management in the md&amp;a beginning on page 77 is incorporated herein by reference. 105 table of contentsrisk factors as a financial services organization, we are subject to a number of risks inherent in our transactions and present in the business decisions we make. described below are the primary risks and uncertainties that if realized could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and our access to liquidity. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. 18 table of contents our erm program incorporates risk management throughout our organization to identify, understand, and manage the risks presented by our business activities. our erm program identifies key major risk categories as: credit risk, compliance risk, operational risk, capital and liquidity risk, market risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, and model risk. these risk factors, and other risks we may face, are discussed in more detail in other sections of this report. i. credit risk should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the u.s. economy remains vulnerable, and any reversal in broad macro trends would threaten the recovery in commercial real estate. the improvement of certain economic factors, such as unemployment and real estate asset values and rents, has continued to lag behind the overall economy. these economic factors generally affect certain industries like real estate and financial services more significantly. a significant portion of our clients are active in these industries. furthermore, financial services companies with a substantial lending business, like ours, are dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. a portion of our commercial real estate loans are construction loans. typically these properties are not fully leased at loan origination; the borrower may require additional leasing through the life of the loan to provide cash flow to support debt service payments. if we experienced weaknesses similar to those experienced at the height of the economic downturn, then we would experience a slowing in the execution of new leases, which may also lead to existing lease turnover. we are subject to the risk of defaults by our loan counterparties and clients. many of our routine transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of counterparties and clients, including financial statements, credit reports and other information. we may also rely on representations of those counterparties, clients, or other third parties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. the inaccuracy of that information or those representations affects our ability to accurately evaluate the default risk of a counterparty or client. various factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to increase. we maintain an alll (a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense) that represents our estimate of losses based on our evaluation of risks within our existing portfolio of loans. the level of the allowance reflects our ongoing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan and lease loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and incurred losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the alll inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, the stagnation of certain economic indicators that we are more susceptible to, such as unemployment and real estate values, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may recommend an increase in the alll. bank regulatory agencies periodically review our alll and, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management, may recommend an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. in addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the alll (i.e., if the loan and lease allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan and lease loss provisions to increase the alll, which would decrease our net income and capital. 19 table of contents declining asset prices could adversely affect us. during the great recession, the volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets experienced reached extreme levels. this severe market disruption led to the failure of several substantial financial institutions, causing the widespread liquidation of assets and constraining the credit markets. these asset sales, along with asset sales by other leveraged investors, including some hedge funds, rapidly drove down prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded asset classes. asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of many of the asset categories represented on our balance sheet, and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable. a further recession would likely reverse recent positive trends in asset prices. we have concentrated credit exposure in commercial, financial and agricultural loans. as of december 31, 2014, approximately 72% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans, and have a different risk profile that includes, among other risks, a borrower failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. the deterioration of a larger loan or a group of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which would result in net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs. ii. compliance risk we are subject to extensive and increasing government regulation and supervision. as a financial services institution, we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, which has increased in recent years due to the implementation of the dodd-frank act and other financial reform initiatives. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors funds, the dif, consumers, taxpayers, and the banking system as a whole, not our debtholders or shareholders. these regulations increase our costs and affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to repurchase our common shares, and growth, among other things. we face increased regulation of our industry as a result of current and future initiatives intended to provide financial market stability and enhance the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions. we expect continued intense scrutiny from our bank supervisors in the examination process and aggressive enforcement of regulations at the federal and state levels, particularly due to keybank and keycorp status as covered institutions under the dodd-frank act heightened prudential standards and regulations. we also face increased regulation from efforts designed to protect consumers from financial abuse. although many parts of the dodd-frank act are now in effect, other parts continue to be implemented. as a result, some uncertainty remains as to the aggregate impact upon key of the dodd-frank act. changes to existing statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or their interpretation or implementation, and becoming subject to additional heightened regulatory practices, requirements, or expectations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. these changes may subject us to additional costs and increase our litigation risk should we fail to appropriately comply. such changes may also limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, affect the investments we make, and change the manner in which we operate. additionally, federal banking law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal banking regulators. this enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and affiliated parties. these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations, for practices determined to be unsafe or unsound, or for practices or acts that are determined to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive. for more information, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. 20 table of contents changes in accounting policies, standards, and interpretations could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. the fasb, regulatory agencies, and other bodies that establish accounting standards periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of key financial statements. additionally, those bodies that establish and interpret the accounting standards (such as the fasb, sec, and banking regulators) may change prior interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how key records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, key could be required to retroactively apply a new or revised standard, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results. iii. operational risk our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications, information systems (both internal and provided by third parties) and the internet to conduct our business. our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of daily transactions in compliance with legal, regulatory and internal standards and specifications. in addition, a significant portion of our operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of personal and confidential information, such as the personal information of our customers and clients. these risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase mobile payments and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications. in the event of a failure, interruption or breach of our information systems, we may be unable to avoid impact to our customers. other u.s. financial service institutions and companies have reported breaches, some severe, in the security of their websites or other systems and several financial institutions, including key, experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks, some of which involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems. other potential attacks have attempted to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information or destroy data, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, phishing, cyberattacks, and other means. to date, none of these efforts has had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. such security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including persons who are involved with organized crime or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. those same parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. our security systems may not be able to protect our information systems from similar attacks due to the rapid evolution and creation of sophisticated cyberattacks. we are also subject to the risk that our employees may intercept and transmit unauthorized confidential or proprietary information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action, and reputational harm. we rely on third parties to perform significant operational services for us. third parties perform significant operational services on our behalf. these third-party vendors are subject to similar risks as key relating to cybersecurity, breakdowns or failures of their own systems or employees. one or more of our vendors may experience a cybersecurity event or operational disruption and, if any such event does occur, it may not be adequately addressed, either operationally or financially, by the third-party vendor. certain of our vendors may have limited indemnification obligations or may not have the financial capacity to satisfy their indemnification obligations. financial or operational difficulties of a vendor could also impair our operations if those difficulties interfere with the vendor ability to serve us. additionally, some of our outsourcing arrangements are located overseas and, therefore, are subject to risks unique to the regions in which they operate. if a critical vendor is unable to meet our needs in a timely manner or if the services or products provided by such a vendor are terminated or otherwise delayed and if we are not able to develop alternative sources for these services and products quickly and cost-effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on 21 table of contents our business. additionally, regulatory guidance adopted by federal banking regulators in 2013 related to how banks select, engage and manage their outside vendors may affect the circumstances and conditions under which we work with third parties and the cost of managing such relationships. we are subject to claims and litigation. from time to time, customers, vendors or other parties may make claims and take legal action against us. we maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment that a loss is probable, consistent with applicable accounting guidance. at any given time we have a variety of legal actions asserted against us in various stages of litigation. resolution of a legal action can often take years. whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number and risk of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry due to legal changes to the consumer protection laws provided for by the dodd-frank act and the creation of the cfpb. there have also been a number of highly publicized legal claims against financial institutions involving fraud or misconduct by employees, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. we are subject to operational risk. we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. operational risk includes the risk of fraud by employees, clerical and record-keeping errors, nonperformance by vendors, threats to cybersecurity, and computer/telecommunications malfunctions. operational risk also encompasses compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as well as the risk of our noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. we are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business, such as certain loan processing functions. for example, breakdowns or failures of our vendors systems or employees could be a source of operational risk to us. resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation, inability to secure insurance, litigation, regulatory intervention or sanctions or foregone business opportunities. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, and our methods of reducing risk exposure may not be effective. we regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. we also maintain an erm program designed to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze our risks. any system of controls and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. additionally, instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of market compliance, credit, liquidity, operational and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. as a result, we may not be able to effectively mitigate our risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk. 22 table of contents severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. natural disasters, including severe weather events of increasing strength and frequency, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business or upon our customers. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in lost revenue or cause us to incur additional expenses. iv. capital and liquidity risk capital and liquidity requirements imposed by the dodd-frank act require banks and bhcs to maintain more and higher quality capital and higher quality, lower-yielding liquid assets than has historically been the case. new and evolving capital standards resulting from the dodd-frank act and the regulatory capital rules adopted by our regulators will have a significant impact on banks and bhcs, including key. for a detailed explanation of the new capital and liquidity rules that became effective for us on a phased-in basis on january 1, 2015, see the section titled regulatory capital and liquidity under the heading supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. the federal reserve new capital standards will require key to maintain more and higher quality capital and could limit our business activities (including lending) and our ability to expand organically or through acquisitions. they could also result in our taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. in addition, the new liquidity standards will require us to increase our holdings of higher-quality, lower-yielding liquid assets, may require us to change our mix of investment alternatives, and may impact business relationships with certain customers. they could reduce our ability to invest in longer-term assets even if more desirable from a balance sheet management perspective. in addition, the federal reserve requires bank holding companies to obtain approval before making a capital distribution, such as paying or increasing dividends, implementing common stock repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. the federal reserve has detailed the processes that bank holding companies should maintain to ensure they hold adequate capital under severely adverse conditions and have ready access to funding before engaging in any capital activities. these rules could limit key ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. for more information, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. federal agencies may take actions that disrupt the stability of the u.s. financial system. since 2008, the federal government has taken unprecedented steps to provide stability to and confidence in the financial markets. for example, the federal reserve maintains a variety of stimulus policy measures designed to maintain a low interest rate environment. in light of recent moderate improvements in the u.s. economy, federal agencies may no longer support such initiatives. the discontinuation of such initiatives may have a negative impact, perhaps severe, on the financial markets. these effects could include a sudden move to higher debt yields, which could have a chilling effect on borrowing. in addition, new initiatives or legislation may not be implemented, or, if implemented, may not be adequate to counter any negative effects of discontinuing programs or, in the event of an economic downturn, to support and stabilize a troubled economy. we rely on dividends by our subsidiaries for most of our funds. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. with the exception of cash that we may raise from debt and equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our cash flow from dividends by our subsidiaries. dividends by our subsidiaries are the principal source of funds for the dividends we pay on our equity securities 23 table of contents and interest and principal payments on our debt. federal banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that keybank (keycorp largest subsidiary) can pay. for further information on the regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by keybank, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. in the event keybank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our equity securities. in addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. we are subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our funding levels. market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level of or cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, or fund asset growth and new business initiatives at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although we have implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet commitments under various economic conditions (including by reducing our reliance on wholesale funding sources), a substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on us. if the cost effectiveness or the availability of supply in these credit markets is reduced for a prolonged period of time, our funding needs may require us to access funding and manage liquidity by other means. these alternatives may include generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, borrowing under certain secured wholesale facilities, using relationships developed with a variety of fixed income investors, and further managing loan growth and investment opportunities. these alternative means of funding may not be available under stressed conditions. our credit ratings affect our liquidity position. the rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of keycorp and keybank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors. some of these factors are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy and changes in rating methodologies as a result of the dodd-frank act. we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings. a downgrade of the securities of keycorp or keybank could adversely affect our access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, reducing our ability to generate income. v. market risk a reversal of the u.s. economic recovery and a return to volatile or recessionary conditions in the u.s. or abroad could negatively affect our business or our access to capital markets. a worsening of economic and market conditions, downside shocks, or a return to recessionary economic conditions could result in adverse effects on key and others in the financial services industry. additionally, the prolonged low-interest rate environment, despite a generally improving economy, has presented a challenge for key and affected our business and financial performance. the low-interest rate environment may persist for some time even as the economy continues to improve, and may continue to have a negative impact on our performance. in particular, we could face some of the following risks, and other unforeseeable risks, in connection with a downturn in the economic and market environment or in the face of downside shocks or a recession, whether in the united states or internationally: a loss of confidence in the financial services industry and the equity markets by investors, placing pressure on the price of key common shares or decreasing the credit or liquidity available to key; 24 table of contents a decrease in consumer and business confidence levels generally, decreasing credit usage and investment or increasing delinquencies and defaults; a decrease in household or corporate incomes, reducing demand for key products and services; a decrease in the value of collateral securing loans to key borrowers or a decrease in the quality of key loan portfolio, increasing loan charge-offs and reducing key net income; a decrease in our ability to liquidate positions at market prices; the extended continuation of the current low-interest rate environment, continuing or increasing downward pressure to our net interest income; a decrease in the accuracy and viability of our quantitative models; an increase in competition and consolidation in the financial services industry; increased concern over and scrutiny of the capital and liquidity levels of financial institutions generally, and those of our transaction counterparties specifically; a decrease in confidence in the creditworthiness of the united states or other governments whose securities we hold; and an increase in limitations on or the regulation of financial services companies like key. we are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect net interest income. our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the federal reserve. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rate controls being applied by the federal reserve, could influence the amount of interest we receive on loans and securities, the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, and the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, net interest income, and therefore our earnings, would be adversely affected. conversely, earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. our methods for simulating and analyzing our interest rate exposure are discussed more fully under the heading risk management management of interest risk exposure found in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. our profitability depends upon economic conditions in the geographic regions where we have significant operations and on certain market segments with which we conduct significant business. we have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic regions where our bank branches are located pacific; rocky mountains; indiana; west ohio/michigan; east ohio; western new york; eastern new york; and new england and potential exposure to geographic regions outside of our branch footprint. the moderate u.s. economic recovery has been experienced unevenly in the various regions where we operate, and continued improvement in the overall u.s. economy may not result in similar improvement, or any improvement at all, in the economy of any particular geographic region. adverse conditions in a geographic region such as inflation, unemployment, recession, natural disasters, or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of borrowers in these regions to repay their loans, decrease the value of collateral securing loans made in these regions, or affect the ability of our customers in these regions to continue conducting business with us. 25 table of contents additionally, a significant portion of our business activities are concentrated with the real estate, health care and utilities market segments. the profitability of some of these market segments depends upon the health of the overall economy, seasonality, the impact of regulation, and other factors that are beyond our control and may be beyond the control of our customers in these market segments. an economic downturn in one or more geographic regions where we conduct our business, or any significant or prolonged impact on the profitability of one or more of the market segments with which we conduct significant business activity, could adversely affect the demand for our products and services, the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of our deposit funding sources. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties in the financial services industries, and we routinely execute transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. defaults by one or more financial services institutions have led to, and may cause, market-wide liquidity problems and losses. many of our transactions with other financial institutions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be affected when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivatives exposure due us. vi. reputation risk damage to our reputation could significantly harm our businesses. our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors, and highly-skilled management and employees is affected by our reputation. public perception of the financial services industry has declined as a result of the great recession. we face increased public and regulatory scrutiny resulting from the financial crisis and economic downturn. significant harm to our reputation can also arise from other sources, including employee misconduct, actual or perceived unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum or required standards of service and quality, compliance failures, disclosure of confidential information, significant or numerous failures, interruptions or breaches of our information systems, and the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors. actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry may have a significant adverse effect on our reputation. we could also suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interests has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the actual or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, which could adversely affect our businesses. vii. strategic risk we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including among others, our ability to develop and successfully execute our strategic plans and initiatives. our strategic priorities include growing profitably and maintaining financial strength; effectively managing risk and reward; engaging a high-performing, talented, and diverse workforce; and embracing the changes required by our clients and the marketplace. acquiring and expanding customer relationships, including by cross-selling additional or new products to them, is also very important to our business model and our ability to grow revenue and earnings. our inability to execute on or achieve the anticipated outcomes of our strategic priorities may affect how the market perceives us and could impede our growth and profitability. 26 table of contents we operate in a highly competitive industry. we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of competitors, some of which are larger and may have more financial resources than us. our competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various geographic regions in which we operate. we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional, national, and global financial services firms. in addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. mergers and acquisitions have led to increased concentration in the banking industry, placing added competitive pressure on key core banking products and services. we expect the competitive landscape of the financial services industry to become even more intensified as a result of legislative, regulatory, structural and technological changes. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain and build long-term customer relationships based on quality service and competitive prices; our ability to develop competitive products and technologies demanded by our customers, maintaining our high ethical standards and safe and sound assets; and industry and general economic trends. increased competition in the financial services industry, and our failure to perform in any of these areas, could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. maintaining or increasing our market share depends upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive prices. the continuous, widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services and mobile devices (including smartphones and tablets), requires us to evaluate our product and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services, as well as our distribution of them, to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. new technologies have altered consumer behavior by allowing consumers to complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. new products allow consumers to maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and related income generated from those deposits. the increasing pressure from our competitors, both bank and nonbank, to keep pace and adopt new technologies and products and services requires us to incur substantial expense. we may be unsuccessful in developing or introducing new products and services, modifying our existing products and services, adapting to changing consumer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance or regulatory approval, sufficiently developing or maintaining a loyal customer base or offering products and services at prices lower than the prices offered by our competitors. these risks may affect our ability to achieve growth in our market share and could reduce both our revenue streams from certain products and services and our revenues from our net interest income. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, retain, motivate, and develop key people. competition for the best people in most of our business activities is ongoing and can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want or need to serve our customers. to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate these employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. 27 table of contents various restrictions on compensation of certain executive officers were imposed under the dodd-frank act and other legislation and regulations. in addition, our incentive compensation structure is subject to review by the federal reserve, who may identify deficiencies in the structure, causing us to make changes that may affect our ability to offer competitive compensation to these individuals. our ability to attract and retain talented employees may be affected by these developments, or any new executive compensation limits and regulations. potential acquisitions or strategic partnerships may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. acquiring other banks, bank branches, or other businesses involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions or partnerships, including exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; diversion of our management time and attention; significant integration risk with respect to employees, accounting systems, and technology platforms; our inability to realize anticipated revenue and cost benefits and synergies; increased regulatory scrutiny; and, the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition and strategic partnership opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions. as a result, mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values. therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share could occur in connection with any future transaction. additionally, if an acquisition or strategic partnership were to occur, we may fail to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, or other projected benefits. viii. model risk we rely on quantitative models to manage certain accounting, risk management and capital planning functions. we use quantitative models to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating probable loan losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, managing risk, and for capital planning purposes (including during the ccar capital planning process). our modeling methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may be incorrect, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect this evolution. even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model design. as a result, our models may not capture or fully express the risks we face, may suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we do not, or may lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we will operate. if our models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, we may not make appropriate risk management, capital planning, or other business or financial decisions. furthermore, strategies that we employ to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective or fully reliable, and as a result, we may realize losses or other lapses. banking regulators continue to focus on the models used by banks and bank holding companies in their businesses. the failure or inadequacy of a model may result in increased regulatory scrutiny on us or may result in an enforcement action or proceeding against us by one of our regulators. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management in the md&amp;a beginning on page 76 is incorporated herein by reference. 104 table of contentsrisk factors as a financial services organization, we are subject to a number of risks inherent in our transactions and present in the business decisions we make. described below are the primary risks and uncertainties that if realized could 18 table of contents have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and our access to liquidity. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. our erm program incorporates risk management throughout our organization to identify, understand, and manage the risks presented by our business activities. our erm program identifies key major risk categories as: credit risk, compliance risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, market risk, reputation risk, strategic risk, and model risk. these risk factors, and other risks we may face, are discussed in more detail in other sections of this report. i. credit risk should the fundamentals of the commercial real estate market deteriorate, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the strong recovery in commercial real estate, in particular the multifamily property sector, has contributed to a surge in investment and development activity. as a result, property values are elevated and oversupply is a concern in certain markets. substantial deterioration in property market fundamentals could have an impact on our portfolio, with a large portion of our clients active in real estate and specifically multifamily real estate. a correction in the real estate markets could impact the ability of borrowers to make debt service payments on loans. a portion of our commercial real estate loans are construction loans. typically these properties are not fully leased at loan origination; the borrower may require additional leasing through the life of the loan to provide cash flow to support debt service payments. if property market fundamentals deteriorate sharply, the execution of new leases could slow, compromising the borrower ability to cover the debt service payments. we are subject to the risk of defaults by our loan counterparties and clients. many of our routine transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices insufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due us. in deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of counterparties and clients, including financial statements, credit reports and other information. we may also rely on representations of those counterparties, clients, or other third parties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. the inaccuracy of that information or those representations affects our ability to accurately evaluate the default risk of a counterparty or client. various factors may cause our allowance for loan and lease losses to increase. we maintain an alll (a reserve established through a provision for loan and lease losses charged to expense) that represents our estimate of losses based on our evaluation of risks within our existing portfolio of loans. the level of the allowance reflects our ongoing evaluation of industry concentrations; specific credit risks; loan and lease loss experience; current loan portfolio quality; present economic, political and regulatory conditions; and incurred losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. the determination of the appropriate level of the alll inherently involves a degree of subjectivity and requires that we make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, the stagnation of certain economic indicators that we are more susceptible to, such as unemployment and real estate values, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of our control, may indicate the need for an increase in the alll. bank regulatory agencies periodically review our alll and, based on judgments that can differ somewhat from those of our own management, may necessitate an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs. in addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the alll (i.e., if the loan and lease allowance is inadequate), we will need additional loan and lease loss provisions to increase the alll, which would decrease our net income and capital. 19 table of contents declining asset prices could adversely affect us. during the great recession, the volatility and disruption that the capital and credit markets experienced reached extreme levels. this severe market disruption led to the failure of several substantial financial institutions, causing the widespread liquidation of assets and constraining the credit markets. these asset sales, along with asset sales by other leveraged investors, including some hedge funds, rapidly drove down prices and valuations across a wide variety of traded asset classes. asset price deterioration has a negative effect on the valuation of many of the asset categories represented on our balance sheet, and reduces our ability to sell assets at prices we deem acceptable. although the recovery has been in place for some time, a further recession would likely reverse recent positive trends in asset prices. we have concentrated credit exposure in commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, and commercial leases. as of december 31, 2015, approximately 74% of our loan portfolio consisted of commercial, financial and agricultural loans, commercial real estate loans, including commercial mortgage and construction loans, and commercial leases. these types of loans are typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans, and have a different risk profile that includes, among other risks, a borrower failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations. the deterioration of a larger loan or a group of these loans could cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, which would result in net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan and lease losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs. ii. compliance risk we are subject to extensive and increasing government regulation and supervision. as a financial services institution, we are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision, which has increased in recent years due to the implementation of the dodd-frank act and other financial reform initiatives. banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors funds, the dif, consumers, taxpayers, and the banking system as a whole, not our debtholders or shareholders. these regulations increase our costs and affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, ability to repurchase our common shares, and growth, among other things. we face increased regulation of our industry as a result of current and future initiatives intended to provide financial market stability and enhance the liquidity and solvency of financial institutions. we expect continued intense scrutiny from our bank supervisors in the examination process and aggressive enforcement of regulations at the federal and state levels, particularly due to keybank and keycorp status as covered institutions under the dodd-frank act heightened prudential standards and regulations. we also face increased regulation from efforts designed to protect consumers from financial abuse. although many parts of the dodd-frank act are now in effect, other parts continue to be implemented. as a result, some uncertainty remains as to the aggregate impact upon key of the dodd-frank act. changes to existing statutes, regulations or regulatory policies or their interpretation or implementation, and becoming subject to additional heightened regulatory practices, requirements, or expectations, could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways. these changes may subject us to additional costs and increase our litigation risk should we fail to appropriately comply. such changes may also limit the types of financial services and products we may offer, affect the investments we make, and change the manner in which we operate. additionally, federal banking law grants substantial enforcement powers to federal banking regulators. this enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess civil money penalties, to issue cease and desist or removal orders and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and affiliated parties. 20 table of contents these enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations, for practices determined to be unsafe or unsound, or for practices or acts that are determined to be unfair, deceptive, or abusive. for more information, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. changes in accounting policies, standards, and interpretations could materially affect how we report our financial condition and results of operations. the fasb and other bodies that establish accounting standards periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards governing the preparation of key financial statements. additionally, those bodies that establish and/or interpret the financial accounting and reporting standards (such as the fasb, sec, and banking regulators) may change prior interpretations or positions on how these standards should be applied. these changes can be difficult to predict and can materially affect how key records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. in some cases, key could be required to retroactively apply a new or revised standard, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results. iii. operational risk we are subject to a variety of operational risks. in addition to the other risks discussed in this section, we are subject to operational risk, which represents the risk of loss resulting from human error, inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, and external events. operational risk includes the risk of fraud by employees, clerical and record-keeping errors, nonperformance by vendors, threats to cybersecurity, and computer/telecommunications malfunctions. operational risk also encompasses compliance and legal risk, which is the risk of loss from violations of, or noncompliance with, laws, rules, regulations, prescribed practices or ethical standards, as well as the risk of our noncompliance with contractual and other obligations. we are also exposed to operational risk through our outsourcing arrangements, and the effect that changes in circumstances or capabilities of our outsourcing vendors can have on our ability to continue to perform operational functions necessary to our business, such as certain loan processing functions. for example, breakdowns or failures of our vendors systems or employees could be a source of operational risk to us. resulting losses from operational risk could take the form of explicit charges, increased operational costs, harm to our reputation, inability to secure insurance, litigation, regulatory intervention or sanctions or foregone business opportunities. our information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. we rely heavily on communications, information systems (both internal and provided by third parties) and the internet to conduct our business. our business is dependent on our ability to process and monitor large numbers of daily transactions in compliance with legal, regulatory and internal standards and specifications. in addition, a significant portion of our operations relies heavily on the secure processing, storage and transmission of personal and confidential information, such as the personal information of our customers and clients. these risks may increase in the future as we continue to increase mobile payments and other internet-based product offerings and expand our internal usage of web-based products and applications. in the event of a failure, interruption or breach of our information systems, we may be unable to avoid impact to our customers. other u.s. financial service institutions and companies have reported breaches, some severe, in the security of their websites or other systems and several financial institutions, including key, experienced significant distributed denial-of-service attacks, some of which involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems. other potential attacks have attempted to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information or destroy data, often through the introduction of computer viruses or malware, phishing, cyberattacks, and other means. to date, none of these efforts has had a material adverse effect on our business or operations. such security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, 21 table of contents including persons who are involved with organized crime or who may be linked to terrorist organizations or hostile foreign governments. those same parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees, customers or other users of our systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or that of our customers or clients. our security systems may not be able to protect our information systems from similar attacks due to the rapid evolution and creation of sophisticated cyberattacks. we are also subject to the risk that our employees may intercept and transmit unauthorized confidential or proprietary information. an interception, misuse or mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information being sent to or received from a customer or third party could result in legal liability, remediation costs, regulatory action, and reputational harm. we rely on third parties to perform significant operational services for us. third parties perform significant operational services on our behalf. these third parties are subject to similar risks as key relating to cybersecurity, breakdowns or failures of their own systems or employees. one or more of these third parties may experience a cybersecurity event or operational disruption and, if any such event does occur, it may not be adequately addressed, either operationally or financially, by such third party. certain of these third parties may have limited indemnification obligations or may not have the financial capacity to satisfy their indemnification obligations. financial or operational difficulties of a third party could also impair our operations if those difficulties interfere with such third party ability to serve us. additionally, some of our outsourcing arrangements are located overseas and, therefore, are subject to risks unique to the regions in which they operate. if a critical third party is unable to meet our needs in a timely manner or if the services or products provided by such third party are terminated or otherwise delayed and if we are not able to develop alternative sources for these services and products quickly and cost-effectively, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, regulatory guidance adopted by federal banking regulators related to how banks select, engage and manage their third parties affects the circumstances and conditions under which we work with third parties and the cost of managing such relationships. we are subject to claims and litigation. from time to time, customers, vendors or other parties may make claims and take legal action against us. we maintain reserves for certain claims when deemed appropriate based upon our assessment that a loss is probable, estimable, and consistent with applicable accounting guidance. at any given time we have a variety of legal actions asserted against us in various stages of litigation. resolution of a legal action can often take years. whether any particular claims and legal actions are founded or unfounded, if such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and adversely affect how the market perceives us and our products and services as well as impact customer demand for those products and services. we are also involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding our business, including, among other things, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. the number and risk of these investigations and proceedings has increased in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry due to legal changes to the consumer protection laws provided for by the dodd-frank act and the creation of the cfpb. there have also been a number of highly publicized legal claims against financial institutions involving fraud or misconduct by employees, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur. it is not always possible to deter or prevent employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, and our methods of reducing risk exposure may not be effective. we regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. we also maintain an erm program designed to identify, measure, monitor, report and analyze our risks. any system of controls and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well 22 table of contents designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. additionally, instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of market compliance, credit, liquidity, operational and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. as a result, we may not be able to effectively mitigate our risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk. climate change, severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact our business. natural disasters, including severe weather events of increasing strength and frequency due to climate change, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business or upon third parties who perform operational services for us or our customers. such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in lost revenue or cause us to incur additional expenses. iv. liquidity risk capital and liquidity requirements imposed by the dodd-frank act require banks and bhcs to maintain more and higher quality capital and more and higher quality liquid assets than has historically been the case. new and evolving capital standards resulting from the dodd-frank act and the regulatory capital rules adopted by our regulators will have a significant impact on banks and bhcs, including key. for a detailed explanation of the new capital and liquidity rules that became effective for us on a phased-in basis on january 1, 2015, see the section titled regulatory capital and liquidity under the heading supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. the federal reserve new capital standards will require key to maintain more and higher quality capital and could limit our business activities (including lending) and our ability to expand organically or through acquisitions. they could also result in our taking steps to increase our capital that may be dilutive to shareholders or limit our ability to pay dividends or otherwise return capital to shareholders. capital securities usually are the most expensive form of funding, and increasing capital levels could adversely impact key profitability. in addition, the new liquidity standards will require us to increase our holdings of higher-quality liquid assets, may require us to change our mix of investment alternatives, and may impact business relationships with certain customers. additionally, support of the new liquidity standards may be satisfied through the use of term wholesale borrowings, which tend to have a higher cost of funds than that of traditional core deposits. further, the federal reserve requires bank holding companies to obtain approval before making a capital distribution, such as paying or increasing dividends, implementing common stock repurchase programs, or redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments. the federal reserve has detailed the processes that bank holding companies should maintain to ensure they hold adequate capital under severely adverse conditions and have ready access to funding before engaging in any capital activities. these rules could limit key ability to make distributions, including paying out dividends or buying back shares. for more information, see the section titled regulatory capital and liquidity under the heading supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. federal agencies may take actions that disrupt the stability of the u.s. financial system. since 2008, the federal government has taken unprecedented steps to provide stability to and confidence in the financial markets. for example, the federal reserve maintains a variety of stimulus policy measures designed to maintain a low interest rate environment. in light of recent moderate improvements in the u.s. economy, federal 23 table of contents agencies may no longer support such initiatives. the discontinuation of such initiatives may have unanticipated or unintended impacts, perhaps severe, on the financial markets. these effects could include a sudden move to higher debt yields, which could have an unfavorable effect on the quantity and cost of borrowed funds. in addition, new initiatives or legislation may not be implemented, or, if implemented, may not be adequate to counter any negative effects of discontinuing programs or, in the event of an economic downturn, to support and stabilize the economy. we rely on dividends by our subsidiaries for most of our funds. we are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiaries. with the exception of cash that we may raise from debt and equity issuances, we receive substantially all of our funding from dividends by our subsidiaries. dividends by our subsidiaries are the principal source of funds for the dividends we pay on our common and preferred stock and interest and principal payments on our debt. federal banking law and regulations limit the amount of dividends that keybank (keycorp largest subsidiary) can pay. for further information on the regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by keybank, see supervision and regulation in item 1 of this report. in the event keybank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on our common or preferred stock. such a situation could result in key losing access to alternative wholesale funding sources. in addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary creditors. we are subject to liquidity risk, which could negatively affect our funding levels. market conditions or other events could negatively affect our access to or the cost of funding, affecting our ongoing ability to accommodate liability maturities and deposit withdrawals, meet contractual obligations, or fund asset growth and new business initiatives at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. although we maintain a liquid asset portfolio and have implemented strategies to maintain sufficient and diverse sources of funding to accommodate planned as well as unanticipated changes in assets, liabilities, and off-balance sheet commitments under various economic conditions (including reducing our capacity of wholesale funding sources), a substantial, unexpected or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on us. if the cost effectiveness or the availability of supply in these credit markets is reduced for a prolonged period of time, our funding needs may require us to access funding and manage liquidity by other means. these alternatives may include generating client deposits, securitizing or selling loans, extending the maturity of wholesale borrowings, borrowing under certain secured borrowing arrangements, using relationships developed with a variety of fixed income investors, and further managing loan growth and investment opportunities. these alternative means of funding may result in an increase to the overall cost of funds and may not be available under stressed conditions, which would cause us to liquidate a portion of our liquid asset portfolio to meet any funding needs. our credit ratings affect our liquidity position. the rating agencies regularly evaluate the securities of keycorp and keybank, and their ratings of our long-term debt and other securities are based on a number of factors, including our financial strength, ability to generate earnings, and other factors. some of these factors are not entirely within our control, such as conditions affecting the financial services industry and the economy and changes in rating methodologies as a result of the dodd-frank act. we may not be able to maintain our current credit ratings. following key announced acquisition of first niagara in october 2015, s&amp;p and fitch affirmed key ratings but changed the outlook to negative. moody placed key ratings under review for downgrade. the moody review could be outstanding beyond the targeted merger completion date. a rating downgrade of the securities of keycorp or keybank could 24 table of contents adversely affect our access to liquidity and could significantly increase our cost of funds, trigger additional collateral or funding requirements, and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing to lend to us, reducing our ability to generate income. v. market risk a reversal of the u.s. economic recovery and a return to volatile or recessionary conditions in the u.s. or abroad could negatively affect our business or our access to capital markets. a worsening of economic and market conditions, downside shocks, or a return to recessionary economic conditions could result in adverse effects on key and others in the financial services industry. additionally, the prolonged low-interest rate environment, despite a generally improving economy, has presented a challenge for key and affected our business and financial performance. the low-interest rate environment may persist for some time even as the economy continues to improve, and may continue to have a negative impact on our performance. in particular, we could face some of the following risks, and other unforeseeable risks, in connection with a downturn in the economic and market environment or in the face of downside shocks or a recession, whether in the united states or internationally: a loss of confidence in the financial services industry and the equity markets by investors, placing pressure on the price of key common shares or decreasing the credit or liquidity available to key; a decrease in consumer and business confidence levels generally, decreasing credit usage and investment or increasing delinquencies and defaults; a decrease in household or corporate incomes, reducing demand for key products and services; a decrease in the value of collateral securing loans to key borrowers or a decrease in the quality of key loan portfolio, increasing loan charge-offs and reducing key net income; a decrease in our ability to liquidate positions at acceptable market prices; the extended continuation of the current low-interest rate environment, continuing or increasing downward pressure to our net interest income; a decrease in the accuracy and viability of our quantitative models; an increase in competition and consolidation in the financial services industry; increased concern over and scrutiny of the capital and liquidity levels of financial institutions generally, and those of our transaction counterparties specifically; a decrease in confidence in the creditworthiness of the united states or other governments whose securities we hold; and an increase in limitations on or the regulation of financial services companies like key. we are subject to interest rate risk, which could adversely affect net interest income. our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, the competitive environment within our markets, consumer preferences for specific loan and deposit products and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the federal reserve. changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rate controls being applied by the federal reserve, could influence the amount of interest we receive on loans 25 table of contents and securities, the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, and the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities. if the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings increases at a faster rate than the interest we receive on loans and other investments, net interest income, and therefore our earnings, would be adversely affected. conversely, earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest we receive on loans and other investments falls more quickly than the interest we pay on deposits and other borrowings. our methods for simulating and analyzing our interest rate exposure are discussed more fully under the heading risk management management of interest risk exposure found in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation. our profitability depends upon economic conditions in the geographic regions where we have significant operations and on certain market segments with which we conduct significant business. we have concentrations of loans and other business activities in geographic regions where our bank branches are located pacific; rocky mountains; indiana; west ohio/michigan; east ohio; western new york; eastern new york; and new england and potential exposure to geographic regions outside of our branch footprint. the moderate u.s. economic recovery has been experienced unevenly in the various regions where we operate, and continued improvement in the overall u.s. economy may not result in similar improvement, or any improvement at all, in the economy of any particular geographic region. adverse conditions in a geographic region such as inflation, unemployment, recession, natural disasters, or other factors beyond our control could impact the ability of borrowers in these regions to repay their loans, decrease the value of collateral securing loans made in these regions, or affect the ability of our customers in these regions to continue conducting business with us. additionally, a significant portion of our business activities are concentrated within the real estate, healthcare, and utilities market segments. the profitability of some of these market segments depends upon the health of the overall economy, seasonality, the impact of regulation, and other factors that are beyond our control and may be beyond the control of our customers in these market segments. an economic downturn in one or more geographic regions where we conduct our business, or any significant or prolonged impact on the profitability of one or more of the market segments with which we conduct significant business activity, could adversely affect the demand for our products and services, the ability of our customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of our deposit funding sources. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. we have exposure to many different industries and counterparties in the financial services industries, and we routinely execute transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. defaults by one or more financial services institutions have led to, and may cause, market-wide liquidity problems and losses. many of our transactions with other financial institutions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. in addition, our credit risk may be affected when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivatives exposure due us. 26 table of contents vi. reputation risk damage to our reputation could significantly harm our businesses. our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors, and highly-skilled management and employees is affected by our reputation. public perception of the financial services industry has declined as a result of the great recession. we face increased public and regulatory scrutiny resulting from the financial crisis and economic downturn. significant harm to our reputation can also arise from other sources, including employee misconduct, actual or perceived unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver minimum or required standards of service and quality, compliance failures, disclosure of confidential information, significant or numerous failures, interruptions or breaches of our information systems, and the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors. actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry may have a significant adverse effect on our reputation. we could also suffer significant reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. management of potential conflicts of interests has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. the actual or perceived failure to adequately address conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, which could adversely affect our businesses. vii. strategic risk we may not realize the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives. our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including among others our ability to develop and successfully execute our strategic plans and initiatives. our strategic priorities include growing profitably and maintaining financial strength; effectively managing risk and reward; engaging a high-performing, talented, and diverse workforce; and embracing the changes required by our clients and the marketplace. acquiring and expanding customer relationships, including by cross-selling additional or new products to them, is also very important to our business model and our ability to grow revenue and earnings. our inability to execute on or achieve the anticipated outcomes of our strategic priorities may affect how the market perceives us and could impede our growth and profitability. we operate in a highly competitive industry. we face substantial competition in all areas of our operations from a variety of competitors, some of which are larger and may have more financial resources than us. our competitors primarily include national and super-regional banks as well as smaller community banks within the various geographic regions in which we operate. we also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including, without limitation, savings associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers and other local, regional, national, and global financial services firms. in addition, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for nonbanks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks. mergers and acquisitions have led to increased concentration in the banking industry, placing added competitive pressure on key core banking products and services. we expect the competitive landscape of the financial services industry to become even more intensified as a result of legislative, regulatory, structural, and technological changes. our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including: our ability to develop and execute strategic plans and initiatives; our ability to develop, maintain, and build long-term customer relationships based on quality service and competitive prices; our ability to develop competitive products and technologies demanded by our customers, while maintaining our high ethical standards and assets safe and sound; our ability to attract, retain, and develop a strong employee workforce; and industry and general economic trends. increased 27 table of contents competition in the financial services industry, and our failure to perform in any of these areas, could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. maintaining or increasing our market share depends upon our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences, while maintaining competitive prices. the continuous, widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services and mobile devices (including smartphones and tablets), requires us to evaluate our product and service offerings to ensure they remain competitive. our success depends, in part, on our ability to adapt our products and services, as well as our distribution of them, to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences. new technologies have altered consumer behavior by allowing consumers to complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. new products allow consumers to maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. the process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and related income generated from those deposits. the increasing pressure from our competitors, both bank and nonbank, to keep pace and adopt new technologies and products and services requires us to incur substantial expense. we may be unsuccessful in developing or introducing new products and services, modifying our existing products and services, adapting to changing consumer preferences and spending and saving habits, achieving market acceptance or regulatory approval, sufficiently developing or maintaining a loyal customer base or offering products and services at prices lower than the prices offered by our competitors. these risks may affect our ability to achieve growth in our market share and could reduce both our revenue streams from certain products and services and our revenues from our net interest income. we may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, retain, motivate, and develop key people. competition for the best people in most of our business activities is ongoing and can be intense, and we may not be able to retain or hire the people we want or need to serve our customers. to attract and retain qualified employees, we must compensate these employees at market levels. typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense. various restrictions on compensation of certain executive officers were imposed under the dodd-frank act and other legislation and regulations. in addition, our incentive compensation structure is subject to review by the federal reserve, who may identify deficiencies in the structure, causing us to make changes that may affect our ability to offer competitive compensation to these individuals. our ability to attract and retain talented employees may be affected by these developments, or any new executive compensation limits and regulations. potential acquisitions or strategic partnerships may disrupt our business and dilute shareholder value. on october 30, 2015, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger with first niagara, pursuant to which first niagara will merge with and into keycorp with keycorp continuing as the surviving company. acquiring other banks, bank branches, or other businesses involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions or partnerships, including exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; diversion of our management time and attention; significant integration risk with respect to employees, accounting systems, and technology platforms; our inability to realize anticipated revenue and cost benefits and synergies; increased regulatory scrutiny; and, the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company. we regularly evaluate merger and acquisition and strategic partnership opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions. as a result, mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities, such as the first niagara merger, may occur at any time. acquisitions may involve the payment of a premium over book and market values. therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share 28 table of contents could occur in connection with any future transaction. additionally, if an acquisition, including the first niagara merger, or strategic partnership were to occur, we may fail to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, or other projected benefits. we may not be able to complete the acquisition of first niagara. before the transactions contemplated in the merger agreement with first niagara can be completed, various approvals must be obtained from the bank regulatory and other governmental authorities. in deciding whether to grant antitrust or regulatory clearances, the relevant governmental entities will consider a variety of factors, including the regulatory standing of each of the parties and the effect of the merger on competition within their relevant jurisdiction. an adverse development in either party regulatory standing or other factors could result in an inability to obtain one or more of the required regulatory approvals or delay their receipt. the terms and conditions of the approvals that are granted may impose requirements, limitations or costs, or place restrictions on the conduct of the combined company business or require branch divestitures. the level of divestitures required by the relevant governmental entities might be unacceptable to the parties, or could delay the closing of the merger or diminish the anticipated benefits of the merger. if required by regulatory authorities, we will divest branches in certain areas in a manner sufficient to eliminate such regulatory authorities competitive concerns. despite the parties commitments to use their reasonable best efforts to comply with conditions imposed by regulatory entities, under the terms of the merger agreement, keycorp and first niagara will not be required to take actions that would be more-likely-than-not to have a material and adverse effect on keycorp and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, giving effect to the merger (measured on a scale relative to first niagara and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole). there can be no assurance that regulators will not impose conditions, terms, obligations, or restrictions and that such conditions, terms, obligations, or restrictions will not have the effect of delaying the completion of the merger, imposing additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger or otherwise reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger if the merger were consummated successfully within the expected timeframe. in addition, we cannot provide assurance that any such conditions, terms, obligations, or restrictions will not result in the delay or abandonment of the merger. additionally, the completion of the merger is conditioned on the absence of certain orders, injunctions, or decrees by any court or regulatory agency of competent jurisdiction that would prohibit or make illegal the completion of the merger. in addition to the various regulatory approvals, the merger agreement is subject to a number of other conditions that must be fulfilled in order to complete the merger. those conditions include, but are not limited to: approval of the merger agreement by first niagara and keycorp shareholders, as well as approval of the amendment to keycorp articles by keycorp shareholders, absence of orders prohibiting completion of the merger, effectiveness of the registration statement filed in connection with the transaction, and approval of the keycorp common shares and the new keycorp preferred stock to be issued to first niagara common and preferred stockholders, as applicable, for listing on the nyse. the conditions to the closing of the merger may not be fulfilled in a timely manner or at all, and, accordingly, the merger may not be completed. in addition, the parties can mutually decide to terminate the merger agreement at any time, before or after shareholder approval, or keycorp or first niagara may elect to terminate the merger agreement in certain other circumstances. several putative class action lawsuits have been filed by purported first niagara stockholders alleging claims against first niagara, the members of first niagara board of directors, and keycorp. among other remedies, the purported plaintiffs seek to enjoin the merger. the outcome of any such litigation is uncertain. if the cases or any additional cases filed in connection with the merger are not resolved, these lawsuits could prevent or delay the completion of the merger and result in significant costs to first niagara and/or keycorp, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors and officers. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger with first niagara. keycorp and first niagara have operated and, until the completion of the merger, will continue to operate, independently. the success of the merger, including anticipated benefits and cost savings, will depend on, among 29 table of contents other things, our ability to combine the businesses of keycorp and first niagara in a manner that permits growth opportunities, including, among other things, enhanced revenues and revenue synergies, an expanded market reach and operating efficiencies, and that does not materially disrupt the existing customer relationships of keycorp or first niagara nor result in decreased revenues due to loss of customers. if we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. failure to achieve these anticipated benefits could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management time and energy and could have an adverse effect on the surviving corporation business, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. in addition, it is possible that the integration process could result in the disruption of our ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies that adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger. we will incur transaction and integration costs in connection with the first niagara merger. we have incurred and expect to incur significant, nonrecurring costs in connection with consummating the first niagara merger. in addition, we will incur integration costs following the completion of the merger as we integrate our business and first niagara business, including facilities and systems consolidation costs and employment-related costs. there can be no assurances that the expected benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses will be realized to offset these transaction and integration costs over time. we may also incur additional costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. we will also incur significant legal, financial advisor, accounting, banking and consulting fees, fees relating to regulatory filings and notices, sec filing fees, printing and mailing fees, and other costs associated with the merger. some of these costs are payable regardless of whether the merger is completed. viii. model risk we rely on quantitative models to manage certain accounting, risk management and capital planning functions. we use quantitative models to help manage certain aspects of our business and to assist with certain business decisions, including estimating probable loan losses, measuring the fair value of financial instruments when reliable market prices are unavailable, estimating the effects of changing interest rates and other market measures on our financial condition and results of operations, managing risk, and for capital planning purposes (including during the ccar capital planning process). our modeling methodologies rely on many assumptions, historical analyses and correlations. these assumptions may be incorrect, particularly in times of market distress, and the historical correlations on which we rely may no longer be relevant. additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not accurately reflect this evolution. even if the underlying assumptions and historical correlations used in our models are adequate, our models may be deficient due to errors in computer code, bad data, misuse of data, or the use of a model for a purpose outside the scope of the model design. as a result, our models may not capture or fully express the risks we face, may suggest that we have sufficient capitalization when we do not, or may lead us to misjudge the business and economic environment in which we will operate. if our models fail to produce reliable results on an ongoing basis, we may not make appropriate risk management, capital planning, or other business or financial decisions. furthermore, strategies that we employ to manage and govern the risks associated with our use of models may not be effective or fully reliable, and as a result, we may realize losses or other lapses. banking regulators continue to focus on the models used by banks and bank holding companies in their businesses. the failure or inadequacy of a model may result in increased regulatory scrutiny on us or may result in an enforcement action or proceeding against us by one of our regulators. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information included under the caption risk management market risk management in the md&amp;a beginning on page 79 is incorporated herein by reference. 109 table of contents