quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks 42risk factors 13 risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k ( 2016 form 10-k ), the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the company and its business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear. the semiconductor capital equipment industry is subject to variability and, as a result, we face risks related to our strategic resource allocation decisions the semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand. the industry environment has moved toward an environment more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry. variability in our customers' business plans may lead to changes in demand for our equipment and services, which could negatively impact our results. the variability in our customers' investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers' ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices. the changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, procedures for training and managing our work force, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. if we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of demand decline, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted. we continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment. if we do not adequately adapt to the changing business environment, we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during a period of growth, or we may expand our capacity too rapidly and/or beyond what is appropriate for the actual demand environment. especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes. our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 13 table of contents future declines in the semiconductor industry, and the overall world economic conditions on which it is significantly dependent, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. with the consolidation of customers within the industry, the semiconductor capital equipment market may experience rapid changes in demand driven both by changes in the market generally and the plans and requirements of particular customers. global economic and business conditions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. additionally, in times of economic uncertainty our customers' budgets for our products, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. this would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. as a result, economic downturns can cause material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition including, but not limited to: a decline in demand for our products or services; an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers' inability to pay us; an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; a decline in the value of our investments; exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply. fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers may materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues, operating results, and earnings. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in r&amp;d and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our profitability and other financial results. our quarterly revenues and operating results are variable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a small number of transactions can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include, but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries in general and specifically the semiconductor equipment industry; the size and timing of orders from customers; consolidation of the customer base, which may result in the investment decisions of one customer or market having a significant effect on demand for our products or services; procurement shortages; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; manufacturing difficulties; customer cancellations or delays in shipments, installations, and/or customer acceptances; the extent that customers continue to purchase and use our products and services in their business; our customers' reuse of existing and installed products, to the extent that such reuse decreases their need to purchase new products or services; changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 14 table of contents our ability in a timely manner to develop, introduce and market new, enhanced, and competitive products; our competitors' introduction of new products; legal or technical challenges to our products and technology; transportation, communication, demand, information technology or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control such as strikes, acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, and natural or man-made disasters; legal, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes (including but not limited to change in import/export regulations) or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing requirements; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and the dilutive impact of our convertible notes (as defined below) and related warrants on our earnings per share. we may incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business units, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. if, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations. during the 2015 fiscal year, our goodwill and long-lived asset impairment assessments resulted in an impairment charge of $79.4 million associated with the single-wafer clean reporting unit and $9.8 million related to an intangible asset. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. we operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill in one or more of our business units, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations. our leverage and debt service obligations and potential note conversion or related hedging activities may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and earnings per share we have $4.55 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes and convertible note instruments outstanding. if the anticipated acquisition of kla-tencor is not completed on or prior to december 30, 2016, or the related merger agreement is terminated on or at any time prior to that date, the indenture governing the senior unsecured notes issued in june 2016 requires us to redeem $1.6 billion of those senior unsecured notes at a redemption price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest. in addition, in connection with the acquisition of kla-tencor, we have also entered into a term loan agreement with certain term lenders pursuant to which the term lenders have agreed to provide a senior unsecured term loan facility in an aggregate amount of up to $1.53 billion, subject to certain terms and conditions. if the anticipated acquisition of kla-tencor is not completed on or prior to october 20, 2016, we will need to obtain consent from all of the lenders under the term loan agreement to extend their commitments past this date. additionally, we have $750 million available to us in revolving credit arrangements, with an option for us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $250 million, for a potential total commitment of $1 billion. we may, in the future, decide to borrow amounts under the revolving credit agreement, or to enter into additional debt arrangements. in addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt. we could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments. our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including: increased risk associated with any inability to satisfy our obligations; continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 15 table of contents increasing the portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; and impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows, particularly in the united states, to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. as a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. if we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. conversion of our convertible notes and resulting exercise of the related warrants may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share. the number of shares of our common stock into which the convertible notes are convertible for and the related warrants are exercisable for may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders. upon conversion of any convertible notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the convertible notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the convertible notes, shares of our common stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. this dilution may not be completely mitigated by the hedging transactions we entered into in connection with the sale of certain convertible notes or through share repurchases. prior to the maturity of the convertible notes, if the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share. the price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and also by hedging activity that may develop involving our common stock by holders of the convertible notes. our credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business we may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, or obtain additional financing, because our debt agreements contain, and any of our other future similar agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees; create liens; enter into transactions with our affiliates; sell certain assets; and merge or consolidate with any person. our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. in addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the senior notes, the convertible notes or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. if any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments, cash flows, collections, and profitability. for the years ended june 26, 2016 , june 28, 2015 and june 29, 2014 , three customers collectively accounted for 45% , 51% , and 52% of total revenue, respectively. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that are difficult to predict. in addition, large customers may be able to negotiate requirements that result in decreased pricing, increased costs and/or lower margins for us; compliance with specific environmental, social and corporate governance standards; and continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 16 table of contents limitations on our ability to share jointly developed technology with others. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers, so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. we depend on creating new products and processes and enhancing existing products and processes for our success. consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change. rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products or existing products have reliability, quality, design, or safety problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture products successfully, or products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. for over 25 years the primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips. that driver could be approaching its technological limit, leading semiconductor manufacturers to investigate more complex changes in multiple technologies in an effort to continue technology development. in the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements. our failure to develop and offer the correct technology solutions in a timely manner with productive and cost-effective products could adversely affect our business in a material way. our failure to commercialize new products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. in order to develop new products and processes and enhance existing products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r&amp;d and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers, or other members of the industry. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products and certain jointly developed technologies may be subject to restrictions on our ability to share that technology with other customers, which could limit our market for products incorporating those technologies. future technologies, processes or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, or obsolete inventory, or both. moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next generation devices. this shift may result in a reduction in the size of our addressable markets or could increase the relative size of markets in which we either do not compete or have relatively low market share. we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products. our products are priced up to approximately $9.7 million per system, and our revenues in any given quarter are dependent upon customer acceptance of a limited number of systems. as a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significantly adverse impact on our revenues for a given quarter, and, in the longer term, the continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products; a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products; export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customers or customers within certain markets; an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the markets in which we participate; increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines; technological changes that we are unable to address with our products; or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. in addition, the fact that we offer limited product lines creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 17 table of contents additional risks associated with technology changes. our business is affected by our customers' use of our products in certain steps in their wafer fabrication processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductors requires fewer steps using our products, this could have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. strategic alliances and customer consolidation may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor manufacturing companies are entering into strategic alliances or consolidating with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies and/or achieve economies of scale. the outcomes of such an alliance can be the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function and/or the standardization of a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment; while the outcomes of consolidation can lead to an overall reduction in the market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment as customers' operations achieve economies of scale and/or increased purchasing power based on their higher volumes. in certain instances, this could work to our disadvantage if a competitor's tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such functions or processes. additional outcomes of such consolidation may include our customers re-evaluating their future supplier relationships to consider other competitors' products and/or gaining additional influence over the pricing of products and the control of intellectual property. similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor's equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. even if they select our equipment, the institutions and the customers that follow their lead could impose conditions on acceptance of that equipment, such as adherence to standards and requirements or limitations on how we license our proprietary rights that increase our costs or require us to take on greater risk. these actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results. we depend on a limited number of key suppliers and outsource providers, and we run the risk that they might not perform as we expect outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. these providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us or be unable to meet our requirements or expectation due to their independent business decisions, or force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect. although we attempt to select reputable providers and suppliers, and we attempt to secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers or suppliers could fail to perform as we expect, or fail to secure or protect intellectual property rights, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances. there is therefore a risk that a prolonged inability to obtain certain components or secure key services could impair our ability to manage operations, ship products and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships. we face risks related to the disruption of our primary manufacturing facilities our manufacturing facilities are concentrated in just a few locations. these locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, and utility interruptions. such disruptions may cause delays in shipping our products, which could result in the loss of business or customer trust, adversely affecting our business and operating results. continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 18 table of contents once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor's semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor's equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier's processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool re-use. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor's equipment for the same product line application. we face a challenging and complex competitive environment we face significant competition from multiple competitors and with increased consolidation efforts in our industry we may face increasing competitive pressures. other companies continue to develop systems and products that are competitive to ours and may introduce new products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we must devote significant financial resources to offer products that meet our customers' needs, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r&amp;d. certain of our competitors, including those that are created and financially backed by foreign governments, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to offer customers a more comprehensive array of products and to therefore achieve additional relative success in the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. we also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. in addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, competition may intensify, and we may be unable to continue to compete successfully in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. our future success depends heavily on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales accounted for approximately 92% , 83% , and 86% of total revenue in fiscal years 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue in future years. we are subject to various challenges related to international sales and the management of global operations including, but not limited to: trade balance issues; tariffs and other barriers; global or national economic and political conditions; changes in currency controls; differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers; continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 19 table of contents compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations; including u.s. and international trade restrictions and sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, environmental, and labor laws; fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to repatriate cash in a tax-efficient manner; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business. certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. government. our failure or inability to obtain such licenses would substantially limit our markets and severely restrict our revenues. many of the challenges noted above are applicable in china, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. as the business volume between china and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among china, taiwan, japan, south korea, and the united states, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions. this would adversely affect our business with china, taiwan, japan, and/or south korea and perhaps the entire asia pacific region. a significant trade disruption in these areas could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. in addition, there are risks that the chinese government may, among other things: insist on the use of local suppliers; compel companies that do business in china to partner with local companies to design and supply equipment on a local basis, requiring the transfer of intellectual property rights and/or local manufacturing; and provide special incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local competitors, even if their products are inferior to ours; all of which could adversely impact our revenues and margins. we are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won. currently, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities; primarily third party accounts receivables, accounts payables and intercompany receivables and payables. in addition, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated and korean won-denominated expenses. we believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. we expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over or under hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed) and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures. therefore, we are subject to potential unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) for these currencies. the magnitude of our overseas business also affects where our cash is generated. certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with on-shore cash balances. since the majority of our cash is generated outside of the united states, this may impact certain business decisions and adversely affect business outcomes. our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees is critical to our success our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees. this is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, as well as fluctuations in industry economic conditions that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. we periodically evaluate our overall compensation programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. if continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 20 table of contents we are not able to successfully attract, retain, and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business which are susceptible to cybersecurity and other threats or incidents we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. these information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsourced providers or third parties such as vendors and contractors. many of these information systems and outsourced service providers, including certain hosted software applications that we use for confidential data (e.g., company related, whether intellectual property or not; customer related; supplier related; and / or employee related) storage, employ cloud computing technology for such storage (which refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which data is not stored within the user's physical infrastructure but instead is delivered to and consumed by the user as an internet-based service). all of these information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment. confidential and/or sensitive information stored on these information systems or transmitted to or from cloud storage could be intentionally or unintentionally compromised, lost and/or stolen. while we have implemented iso 27001 compliant security procedures, such as virus protection software, intrusion prevention system and emergency recovery processes, to mitigate the outlined risks with respect to information systems that are under our control, they cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time, or unauthorized releases of proprietary or confidential information, could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business, including our results of operations, and our reputation. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities. these factors could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of domestic and international governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous chemicals. failure to comply with present or future environmental regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, require us to suspend production, cease operations, or cause our customers to not accept our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, acquire significant additional equipment, incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations, or take other actions. any failure to comply with regulations governing the use, handling, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and ability to operate our business. if we choose to acquire or dispose of businesses, product lines and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. as a result, we may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies as with our proposed acquisition of kla-tencor, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. managing an acquired business, disposing of product continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 21 table of contents technologies or reducing personnel entail numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, adverse customer reaction to our decision to cease support for a product, and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. in addition, any acquisition could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, cash flows, and/or the price of our common stock. the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital, make acquisitions, or subject our business to additional costs the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control or influence. these factors include but are not limited to the following: our ability to complete the contemplated acquisition of kla-tencor, or any delays thereto; general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; economic or political events and trends occurring globally or in any of our key sales regions; variations in our quarterly operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity; variations in our revenues, earnings or other business and financial metrics from forecasts by us or securities analysts, or from those experienced by other companies in our industry; announcements of restructurings, reductions in force, departure of key employees, and/or consolidations of operations; government regulations; developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; technological innovations and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; commercial success or failure of our new and existing products; disruptions of relationships with key customers or suppliers; or dilutive impacts of our convertible notes and related warrants. in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors. these and other factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management's attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our common stock. continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 22 table of contents intellectual property, indemnity, and other claims against us can be costly and we could lose significant rights that are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. from time to time, other persons send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues. we also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships. in addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and members of our board of directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to us. from time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters. we have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties. moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles. we may fail to protect our critical proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights and trade secret protection. protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. as part of our strategy to protect our technology we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes and techniques as trade secrets. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the united states or foreign governments issue to us, these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications, or we may lose trade secret protection over valuable information due to the intentional or unintentional actions or omissions of third parties, of ours or even our own employees. additionally, intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and even when patents are issued or trade secret processes are followed, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the united states. the rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents, pending patent applications or trade secrets may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. moreover, because we determine the jurisdictions in which to file patents at the time of filing, we may not have adequate protection in the future based on such previous decisions. any of these circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our business. we are exposed to various risks from our regulatory environment we are subject to various risks related to (i) new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries that we operate; (ii) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; and (iii) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and regulations. as a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, anti-corruption, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, conflict minerals or other social responsibility legislation, and antitrust regulations, among others. each of these laws, rules and regulations imposes costs on our business, including financial costs and potential diversion of our management's attention associated with compliance, and may present risks to our business, including potential fines, restrictions on our actions, and reputational damage if we are unable to fully comply. to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all evolving standards. changes in or ambiguous interpretations of laws, regulations and standards may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. efforts to comply with new and continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 23 table of contents changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased selling, general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. if we are found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance with the laws and regulations, our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations could be adversely affected. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase our shares at all or in any particular amounts our board of directors has declared quarterly dividends since april 2014. our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability; in the case of share repurchases, contractual restrictions; and, in the case of dividends, periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model. our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. we currently are restricted from repurchasing our common stock and increasing our quarterly dividend pursuant to the kla-tencor merger agreement. a reduction or suspension in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our stock price. if we are unable to complete our contemplated acquisition of kla-tencor corporation, our expected financial results and the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected on october 20, 2015, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger and reorganization (the merger agreement ) with kla-tencor to acquire all of kla-tencor's issued and outstanding stock through a merger of kla-tencor with our subsidiaries, topeka merger sub 1, inc. and topeka merger sub 3, inc. (as assignee of topeka merger sub 2, inc.) (the merger ). consummation of the merger is subject to customary conditions to closing, including the receipt of required regulatory approvals. if any condition to the merger is not satisfied or waived, the merger will not be completed. we and kla-tencor also may terminate the merger agreement under certain circumstances. any or all of the preceding could jeopardize our ability to consummate the merger on the already negotiated terms. to the extent the merger is not completed for any reason, we would have devoted substantial resources and management attention to the transaction without realizing the accompanying benefits expected by our management, and our financial condition and results of operations and the market value of our stock may be adversely affected. additional risks and uncertainties associated with the merger include: various conditions to the closing of the merger may not be satisfied or waived; the failure to consummate the merger may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community; we and kla-tencor are subject to litigation related to the merger, and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future, which may effect the merger from becoming effective within the expected time frame, or at all; required regulatory approvals from governmental entities may delay the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could cause the abandonment of the merger; the merger agreement may be terminated in circumstances that would require us to pay kla-tencor a termination fee of up to $290 million; the merger agreement contains provisions that could discourage a potential acquirer of the company; our ability to attract, recruit, retain and motivate current and prospective employees who may be uncertain about the timing of the merger or their future roles and relationships with us following the completion of the merger may be adversely affected; the increase in our leverage and debt service obligations as a result of the assumption of kla-tencor's debt and the incurrence of additional financing in connection with the merger may adversely affect the combined company's financial condition, results of operations and earnings per share; and the attention of our employees and management may be diverted due to activities related to the merger; and disruptions from the merger, whether completed or not, may harm our relationships continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 24 table of contents with our employees, customers, distributors, suppliers or other business partners, may impair our ability to continuously innovate to meet the industry inflections, and may result in a loss of or a substantial decrease in purchases by our customers. even if the kla-tencor merger is consummated, we may not be able to integrate the business of kla-tencor successfully with our own or realize the anticipated benefits of the merger the merger involves the combination of two companies that currently operate as independent public companies. the combined company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating our business practices with those of kla-tencor. potential difficulties that the combined company may encounter as part of the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine our business with kla-tencor in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the full revenue and cost synergies and other benefits anticipated to result from the merger; required regulatory approvals from governmental entities may result in limitations, additional costs or placement of restrictions on the conduct of the combined company, imposition of additional material costs on or materially limiting the revenues of the combined company following the merger; complexities associated with managing the combined businesses, including difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; and potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger. in addition, we have operated and, until the completion of the merger will continue to operate, independently. it is possible that the integration process could result in: diversion of the attention of our management; and the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing business or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures or policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined company. the future results of the combined company will suffer if the combined company does not effectively manage its expanded operations following the merger following the merger, the size of the business of the combined company will increase significantly beyond the current size of either our or kla-tencor's business. the combined company's future success depends, in part, upon its ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. there can be no assurances that the combined company will be successful or that it will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits currently anticipated from the merger. the combined company is expected to incur substantial expenses related to the merger with and the integration of kla-tencor we have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with the merger with and the integration of kla-tencor. there are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that may need to be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing, marketing and benefits. while we have assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond our or their control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that the combined company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. these integration expenses likely will result in the combined company taking significant continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 25 table of contents charges against earnings following the completion of the merger, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. the merger may result in a loss of customers or strategic alliances as a result of the merger, some of the customers, potential customers or strategic partners of ours or kla-tencor may terminate or scale back their business relationship with the combined company. some customers may not wish to source a larger percentage of their needs from a single company, or may feel that we or kla-tencor, as applicable, and thus the combined company is too closely allied with one of their competitors. potential customers or strategic partners may delay entering into, or decide not to enter into, a business relationship with the combined company because of the merger. if customer relationships or strategic alliances are adversely affected by the merger, the combined company's business and financial performance could suffer. third parties may terminate or alter existing contracts with kla-tencor kla-tencor has contracts with suppliers, distributors, customers, licensors, licensees, lessors and other business partners that have change of control or similar clauses that allow the counterparty to terminate or change the terms of their contract upon the closing of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. we or kla-tencor may seek to obtain consent from these other parties, but if these third party consents are not obtained, or are obtained on unfavorable terms, the combined company may lose the benefit of such contracts, including benefits that may be material to the business of the combined company. our indebtedness following completion of the merger will be substantially greater than our indebtedness on a stand-alone basis and greater than our and kla-tencor's combined indebtedness existing prior to the merger. this increased level of indebtedness could adversely affect us, including by decreasing our business flexibility, and will increase our borrowing costs. downgrades in our ratings could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and/or operating results. we intend to fund the cash component of the merger consideration and related fees and expenses and to prepay kla-tencor's term loan with a combination of the combined companies' balance sheet cash and proceeds of approximately $4 billion under the term loans, the revolving credit agreement and debt securities. in connection with the anticipated kla-tencor merger, we also expect to offer to holders of kla-tencor's outstanding $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes (the "kla-tencor senior notes") new series of our senior unsecured notes in exchange for the kla-tencor senior notes. our substantially increased indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio following completion of the merger in comparison to that prior to the merger will have the effect, among other things, of reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and will increase our borrowing costs. in addition, the amount of cash required to service our increased indebtedness levels and thus the demands on our cash resources will be greater than the amount of cash flows required to service our indebtedness or that of kla-tencor individually prior to the merger. the increased levels of indebtedness could also reduce funds available for our investments in product development as well as capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. in addition, our credit ratings impact the cost and availability of future borrowings, and, as a result, our cost of capital. our ratings reflect each rating agency's opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our debt obligations or obligations to our insureds. each of the ratings agencies reviews our ratings periodically, and there can be no assurance that our current ratings will be maintained in the future. downgrades in our ratings could adversely affect our business, cash flows, financial condition and/or operating results. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the financing we intend to use to pay the cash portion of the consideration for the merger. we have (1) entered into a senior unsecured term loan agreement which provides up to $1.53 million in term loans, subject to certain conditions; and (2) issued $2.4 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes. we have also entered into an amendment and restatement of our existing revolving credit agreement pursuant to which, among other things, the revolving lenders agreed to increase their aggregate commitments under the revolving credit agreement from $300 million to $750 million. continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 26 table of contents we intend to fund the cash component of the merger consideration and related fees and expenses and to prepay kla-tencor's outstanding term loans with a combination of the combined companies' balance sheet cash and proceeds of approximately $4 billion under the term loans, from the issuance of senior unsecured notes and the revolving credit agreement. the availability of the term loans is subject to certain conditions precedent and will terminate on october 20, 2016 if the merger has not been consummated by such date. in addition, if the merger with kla-tencor is not completed on or prior to december 30, 2016, or if the merger agreement is terminated on or prior to such date, we will be required to redeem $1.6 billion principal amount of senior notes pursuant to a special mandatory redemption feature of such notes. our obligation to complete the merger is not subject to a financing contingency. in the event that we and kla-tencor were to agree to extend the period of time in which to close the merger beyond october 20, 2016, there can be no assurance that we would be able to extend the availability of the term loans beyond that date. in the event that the term loans are not available, or in the event of the special mandatory redemption of certain of our senior notes, other financing may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. if we are unable to secure alternative financing, the merger may not be completed or we could find it necessary to fund the merger, related fees and expenses, and the prepayment of kla-tencor's outstanding term loans from other sources of liquidity, or we could be liable to kla-tencor for breach of the merger agreement in connection with our failure to consummate the merger. any delay in completing the kla-tencor merger may reduce or eliminate the benefits expected to be achieved thereunder. in addition to the required regulatory clearances, the kla-tencor merger is subject to a number of other conditions beyond our and kla-tencor's control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect its completion. we cannot predict whether and when these other conditions will be satisfied. furthermore, the requirements for obtaining the required clearances and approvals could delay the completion of the kla-tencor merger for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring. any delay in completing the kla-tencor merger could cause the combined company not to realize some or all of the synergies that we and kla-tencor expect to achieve if the kla-tencor merger is successfully completed within its expected time frame. neither we nor kla-tencor will be obligated to close the kla-tencor merger if the kla-tencor merger is not consummated by october 20, 2016. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investments we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. as of june 26, 2016 , our mutual funds are classified as trading securities. investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. any material differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities is recognized as other income (expense) in our consolidated statement of operations. all of our other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. interest rate risk fixed income securities our investments in various interest earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. at any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. we target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our capital by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and concentration risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 26, 2016 were as follows: valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x basis points june 26, 2016 (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) % 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) time deposit $ 904,243 $ 904,243 $ 904,243 $ 904,243 $ 904,243 $ 904,243 $ 904,243 municipal notes and bonds 266,956 266,857 266,532 265,725 264,913 264,101 263,290 us treasury &amp; agencies 461,378 461,378 460,090 456,788 453,313 449,837 446,361 government-sponsored enterprises 32,316 32,309 32,201 31,963 31,726 31,488 31,250 foreign government bonds 42,093 42,037 41,789 41,512 41,233 40,956 40,678 bank and corporate notes 1,000,189 996,383 989,991 983,341 976,693 970,045 963,397 mortgage backed securities - residential 17,715 17,626 17,458 17,280 17,100 16,922 16,743 mortgage backed securities - commercial 55,947 55,635 55,317 54,999 54,681 54,363 54,045 total $ 2,780,837 $ 2,776,468 $ 2,767,621 $ 2,755,851 $ 2,743,902 $ 2,731,955 $ 2,720,007 we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 47 table of contents long-term debt as of june 26, 2016 , we had $4.55 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate long-term debt outstanding, with a fair value of $5.88 billion . the fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk, and other factors due to the convertible feature, as applicable. generally, the fair value of notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. additionally, the fair value of the convertible notes will increase as our common stock price increases and decrease as our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of our notes but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. we do not carry the notes at fair value, but present the fair value of the principal amount of our notes for disclosure purposes. equity price risk publicly traded securities the values of our investments in publicly traded securities, including mutual funds related to our obligations under our deferred compensation plans, are subject to market price risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded securities that would result from potential decreases and increases in the price of each security in the portfolio. potential fluctuations in the price of each security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, or 25% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. the hypothetical fair values as of june 26, 2016 were as follows: valuation of securities given an x% decrease in stock price fair value as of valuation of securities given an x% increase in stock price june 26, 2016 (25)% (15)% (10)% % 10% 15% 25% mutual funds $ 30,241 $ 34,273 $ 36,289 40,321 $ 44,353 $ 46,369 $ 50,401 foreign currency exchange ( fx ) risk we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated and korean won-denominated expenses. we enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to minimize the short-term impact of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third party accounts receivables, accounts payables and intercompany receivables and payables. in addition, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily on japanese yen-denominated revenues and euro-denominated and korean won-denominated expenses. to protect against the reduction in value of anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated and korean won-denominated expenses, we enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts that generally expire within 12 months, and no later than 24 months. these foreign currency hedge contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value, with the effective portion of the contracts' gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue and/or expense is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of certain non-u.s.-dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third party accounts receivables, accounts payables and intercompany receivables and payables. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income (expense), net and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities also recorded in other income (expense), net, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. the notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward and option contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges, as of june 26, 2016 are shown in the table below. this table also continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 48 table of contents shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. notional amount unrealized fx gain / (loss) valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each june 26, 2016 =+ / - (10%) =+ / - (15%) (in $ millions) forward contracts sell japanese yen $ 219.1 $ (11.8 ) $ 23.0 $ 34.5 buy korean won 8.6 0.1 0.9 1.3 buy euro 36.3 0.8 3.7 5.5 $ (10.9 ) $ 27.6 $ 41.3 option contracts buy put (1) japanese yen $ 39.1 $ (0.4 ) $ 0.5 $ 0.8 sell put (2) japanese yen 39.1 0.1 0.3 $ (0.4 ) $ 0.6 $ 1.1 (1) contracts were entered into and designated as cash flow hedges under asc 815, during the fiscal year as part of our cash flow hedge program. the contracts were subsequently de-designated during the year ended june 26, 2016. changes in fair market value subsequent to de-designation affect current earnings. (2) contracts were entered into to off-set the buy put contracts, and while not designated as a cash flow hedge they are considered to be part of our cash flow hedge program. changes in fair market value effect current earnings. the notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges, as of june 26, 2016 are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net, by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. notional amount unrealized fx gain / (loss) valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each june 26, 2016 =+ / - (10%) =+ / - (15%) (in $ millions) forward contracts, balance sheet hedge sell japanese yen $ 56.9 $ 1.3 $ 5.8 $ 8.5 sell korean won 5.0 (0.1 ) 0.5 0.7 buy swiss francs 4.5 0.4 0.7 buy taiwan dollar 23.3 (0.1 ) 2.3 3.5 buy chinese renminbi 9.1 0.9 1.4 buy singapore dollar 18.3 1.8 2.7 buy euro 16.0 (0.4 ) 1.6 2.4 $ 0.7 $ 13.3 $ 19.9 continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 49 table of contents interest rate contracts interest rate risk is present with both fixed and floating-rate debt. interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges are used to mitigate our exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt resulting from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the swap agreements. interest rate swaps may also be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate, based on market conditions, and for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. during the fiscal year ended june 26, 2016, we entered into a series of interest rate contracts with a total notional value of $400.0 million where we received fixed rates and paid variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates. such interest rate swap arrangements were designated as fair value hedges of the fair value of the underlying debt instrument. the following table shows the change in fair value of these fair value hedges, assuming a hypothetical benchmark interest rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 bps and plus-or-minus 15 bps. fair value as of june 26, 2016 valuation of fair value hedge given an interest rate increase of x basis points valuation of fair value hedge given an interest rate decrease of x basis points 10 bps 15 bps 10 bps 15 bps (in $ millions) $ 8.6 $ 5.5 $ 3.9 $ 11.6 $ 13.2 interest rate risk is also present on anticipated issuances of debt. we manage our interest rate exposure on anticipated issuances of debt through forward starting interest rate swap agreements. forward-starting interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges are used to mitigate our exposure to changes in future interest payments that results from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates prior to the issuance of the debt. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the interest cash flows of the company's anticipated debt issuances, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the forward-starting interest rate swap agreements. during the fiscal year ended june 26, 2016, we entered into and settled a series of forward-starting interest rate swap agreements with a total notional value of $600.0 million, associated with our june 2016 debt offering. such forward-starting interest rate swap agreements were designated as hedges of the cash flows associated with benchmark interest rates underlying future interest payments on the june 2016 debt issuances. continues on next page lam research corporation 2016 10-k 50 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k ( 2017 form 10-k ), the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the company and its business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear. the semiconductor capital equipment industry is subject to variability and periods of rapid growth or decline; we therefore face risks related to our strategic resource allocation decisions the semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand. the industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry. variability in our customers' business plans may lead to changes in demand for our equipment and services, which could negatively impact our results. the variability in our customers' investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors, including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers' ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices. the changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. if we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of increasing or declining demand, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted. we continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment. if we do not adequately adapt to the changing business environment, we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during a period of growth, or we may expand our capacity too rapidly and/or beyond what is appropriate for the actual demand environment, resulting in excess fixed costs. especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes. our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 14 table of contents future declines in the semiconductor industry, and the overall world economic conditions on which it is significantly dependent, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. with the consolidation of customers within the industry, the semiconductor capital equipment market may experience rapid changes in demand driven both by changes in the market generally and the plans and requirements of particular customers. the economic, political, and business conditions occurring nationally, globally, or in any of our key sales regions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. additionally, in times of economic uncertainty, our customers' budgets for our products, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. this would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. as a result, changing business or economic conditions can cause material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition, including but not limited to: a decline in demand for our products or services; an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers' inability to pay us; an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; a decline in the value of our investments; exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply. fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers may materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues, operating results, and earnings. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in r&amp;d and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our profitability and other financial results. our quarterly revenues and operating results are variable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a small number of transactions can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries in general and specifically the semiconductor equipment industry; the size and timing of orders from customers; consolidation of the customer base, which may result in the investment decisions of one customer or market having a significant effect on demand for our products or services; procurement shortages; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; manufacturing difficulties; customer cancellations or delays in shipments, installations, and/or customer acceptances; the extent that customers continue to purchase and use our products and services in their business; our customers' reuse of existing and installed products, to the extent that such reuse decreases their need to purchase new products or services; continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 15 table of contents changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new, enhanced, and competitive products in a timely manner; our competitors' introduction of new products; legal or technical challenges to our products and technologies; transportation, communication, demand, information technology, or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control, such as strikes, acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, and natural or man-made disasters; legal, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes (including but not limited to change in import/export regulations) or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing requirements; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and the dilutive impact of our convertible notes (as defined below) and related warrants on our earnings per share. we may incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business units, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. if, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. we operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill in one or more of our business units, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations. our leverage and debt service obligations and potential note conversion or related hedging activities may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and earnings per share we have $2.9 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes and convertible note instruments outstanding. additionally, we have $750 million available to us in revolving credit arrangements, with an option for us to request an increase in the facility of up to an additional $250 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.0 billion. we may, in the future, decide to borrow amounts under the revolving credit agreement, or to enter into additional debt arrangements. in addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt. we could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments. our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: risk associated with any inability to satisfy our obligations; a portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes; and impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows, particularly in the united states, to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. as a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. if we continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 16 table of contents determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. conversion of our convertible notes and the exercise of the related warrants may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share. the number of shares of our common stock into which the convertible notes are convertible and for which related warrants are exercisable for may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders. upon conversion of any convertible notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the convertible notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the convertible notes, shares of our common stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. this dilution may not be completely mitigated by the hedging transactions we entered into in connection with the sale of certain convertible notes or through share repurchases. prior to the maturity of the convertible notes, if the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share. the price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and also by hedging activity that may develop involving our common stock by holders of the convertible notes. our credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business we may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, or obtain additional financing because our debt agreements contain, and any of our other future similar agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees; create liens; enter into transactions with our affiliates; sell certain assets; and merge or consolidate with any person. our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. in addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the senior notes, the convertible notes, or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. if any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments, cash flows, collections, and profitability. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that is difficult to predict. in addition, large customers may be able to negotiate requirements that result in decreased pricing, increased costs, and/or lower margins for us; compliance with specific environmental, social, and corporate governance standards; and limitations on our ability to share jointly developed technology with others. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 17 table of contents we depend on creating new products and processes and enhancing existing products and processes for our success. consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products or existing products have reliability, quality, design, or safety problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture products successfully, or products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. for more than 25 years, the primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips. that driver could be approaching its technological limit, leading semiconductor manufacturers to investigate more complex changes in multiple technologies in an effort to continue technology development. in the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements. our failure to develop and offer the correct technology solutions in a timely manner with productive and cost-effective products could adversely affect our business in a material way. our failure to commercialize new products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. in order to develop new products and processes and enhance existing products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r&amp;d, to investigate the acquisition of new products and technologies, to invest in or acquire such business or technologies, and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers, or other members of the industry. our investments and acquisitions may not be as successful as we may expect, particularly as we seek to invest or acquire product lines and technologies that are new to us. we may find that acquisitions are not available to us, for regulatory or other reasons, and that we must therefore limit ourselves to collaboration and joint venture development activities, which do not have the same benefits as acquisitions. pursuing development through collaboration and/or joint development activities rather than through an acquisition poses substantial challenges for management, including those related to aligning business objectives, sharing confidential information and intellectual property, sharing value with third parties, and realizing synergies that might have been available in an acquisition but are not available through a joint development project. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products and certain jointly developed technologies may be subject to restrictions on our ability to share that technology with other customers, which could limit our market for products incorporating those technologies. future technologies, processes, or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, obsolete inventory, or both. moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next-generation devices. this shift may result in a reduction in the size of our addressable markets or could increase the relative size of markets in which we either do not compete or have relatively low market share. we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products. our products are priced up to approximately $10 million per system. as a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significantly adverse impact on our revenues for a given quarter, and, in the longer term, the continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products, a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products, export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customers or customers within certain markets, an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the markets in which we participate, increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines, technological changes that we are unable to address with our products, or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 18 table of contents in addition, the fact that we offer limited product lines creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products and/or product capabilities. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. our business is affected by our customers' use of our products in certain steps in their wafer fabrication processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductors requires fewer steps using our products, this could have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. strategic alliances and customer consolidation may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor manufacturing companies are entering into strategic alliances or consolidating with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies and/or achieve economies of scale. the outcomes of such an alliance can be the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function and/or the standardization of a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment, while the outcomes of consolidation can lead to an overall reduction in the market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment as customers' operations achieve economies of scale and/or increased purchasing power based on their higher volumes. in certain instances, this could work to our disadvantage if a competitor's tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such functions or processes. additional outcomes of such consolidation may include our customers re-evaluating their future supplier relationships to consider our competitors' products and/or gaining additional influence over the pricing of products and the control of intellectual property. similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor's equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. even if they select our equipment, the institutions and the customers that follow their lead could impose conditions on acceptance of that equipment, such as adherence to standards and requirements or limitations on how we license our proprietary rights, that increase our costs or require us to take on greater risk. these actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results. we depend on a limited number of key suppliers and outsource providers, and we run the risk that they might not perform as we expect outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. these providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us, or be unable to meet our requirements or expectation due to their independent business decisions or force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect. although we attempt to select reputable providers and suppliers and we attempt to secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers or suppliers could fail to perform as we expect, or fail to secure or protect intellectual property rights, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances. there is therefore a risk that a prolonged inability to obtain certain components or secure key services could impair our ability to manage operations, ship products, and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships. we face risks related to the disruption of our primary manufacturing facilities our manufacturing facilities are concentrated in just a few locations. these locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, and utility interruptions. such disruptions may cause delays in shipping our products, continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 19 table of contents which could result in the loss of business or customer trust, adversely affecting our business and operating results. once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor's semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor's equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier's processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor's equipment for the same product line application. we face a challenging and complex competitive environment we face significant competition from multiple competitors, and with increased consolidation efforts in our industry, we may face increasing competitive pressures. other companies continue to develop systems and/or acquire businesses and products that are competitive to ours and may introduce new products and product capabilities that may affect our ability to sell our existing products. we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we must devote significant financial resources to offer products that meet our customers' needs, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r&amp;d. certain of our competitors, including those that are created and financially backed by foreign governments, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to offer customers a more comprehensive array of products and/or product capabilities and to therefore achieve additional relative success in the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. we also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours. in addition, we face competition from companies that exist in a more favorable legal or regulatory environment than we do, allowing the freedom of action in ways that we may be unable to match. in many cases speed to solution is necessary for customer satisfaction and our competitors may be better positioned to achieve these objectives. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. in addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, competition may intensify, and we may be unable to continue to compete successfully in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. our future success depends heavily on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales, as reflected in part 1 item 1. business, accounted for approximately 92% , 92% , and 83% of total revenue in fiscal years 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 , respectively. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue in future years. we are subject to various challenges related to international sales and the management of global operations including, but not limited to: trade balance issues; tariffs and other barriers; global or national economic and political conditions; changes in currency controls; continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 20 table of contents differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts, and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers; compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including u.s. and international trade restrictions and sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, environmental, tax, and labor laws; fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to repatriate cash in a tax-efficient manner; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business. certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. government. our failure or inability to obtain such licenses would substantially limit our markets and severely restrict our revenues. many of the challenges noted above are applicable in china, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. as the business volume between china and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among china, japan, korea, taiwan, and the united states, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions. this would adversely affect our business with china, japan, korea, and/or taiwan and perhaps the entire asia pacific region. a significant trade disruption in these areas could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. in addition, there are risks that the chinese government may, among other things, insist on the use of local suppliers; compel companies that do business in china to partner with local companies to design and supply equipment on a local basis, requiring the transfer of intellectual property rights and/or local manufacturing; and provide special incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local competitors, even if their products are inferior to ours; all of which could adversely impact our revenues and margins. we are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won. currently, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses dominated in euro and korean won. in addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables. we believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. we expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over or under hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures. therefore, we are subject to potential unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in these currencies. the magnitude of our overseas business also affects where our cash is generated. certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances. since the majority of our cash is generated outside of the united states, this may impact certain business decisions and adversely affect business outcomes. our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees is critical to our success our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees with the appropriate skills, experiences and competencies. this is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. our success in hiring continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 21 table of contents depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. we periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain, and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business that are susceptible to cybersecurity and other threats or incidents we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include, but are not limited to, telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and email. these information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsourced providers, or third parties such as vendors, contractors, and cloud providers. many of these information systems and outsourced service providers, including certain hosted software applications that we use for storage of confidential data and data processing (e.g., company-related, whether intellectual property or not; customer-related; supplier-related; and/or employee-related), employ cloud technology for such storage and data processing (which refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which data is not stored or processed within the user's physical infrastructure but instead is delivered to and consumed by the user as an internet-based service). all of these information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure from sources including but not limited to attacks, degradation, and failures resulting from potential sources, including viruses, malware, denial of service, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment. confidential and/or sensitive information stored on these information systems or transmitted to or from cloud storage could be intentionally or unintentionally compromised, lost, and/or stolen. while we have implemented iso 27001 compliant security procedures and virus protection software, intrusion prevention systems, access control, and emergency recovery processes to mitigate the outlined risks with respect to information systems that are under our control, they cannot be guaranteed to be fail-safe and may be breached. our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time, or unauthorized releases of proprietary or confidential information, could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business, including our results of operations, and our reputation. we have experienced cyber attacks. although past attacks have not resulted in a material adverse effect, we may incur material losses related to cyber attacks in the future. the insurance we carry may not fully compensate us for the effects of potential losses arising from a cyber-related incident. cyber-related incidents could result in: disruptions to our operations; misappropriation or theft of company, customer, supplier, or other's assets or resources, including intellectual property and confidential information, and costs associated therewith; litigation with, or claims of damages arising from, our employees, customers, suppliers, or other third parties which whom we collaborate; or adverse impact to our results of operations, as a result of associated remediation costs such as those related to responding to potential regulatory inquiries, to rebuild the effected information systems, and those associated with improving our security and internal control environment. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities. these factors could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 22 table of contents on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of domestic and international governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous chemicals. failure to comply with present or future environmental regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, require us to suspend production, and/or cease operations, or cause our customers to not accept our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, acquire significant additional equipment, incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations, or take other actions. any failure to comply with regulations governing the use, handling, sale, transport, or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and ability to operate our business. if we choose to acquire or dispose of businesses, product lines, and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. as a result, we may seek to make acquisitions of complementary companies, products, or technologies, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. for regulatory or other reasons, we may not be successful in our attempts to acquire or dispose of businesses, products, or technologies, resulting in significant financial costs, reduced or lost opportunities, and diversion of management's attention. managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies, or reducing personnel entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, adverse customer reaction to our decision to cease support for a product, and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. in addition, any acquisition could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or the price of our common stock. the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital or make acquisitions or may subject our business to additional costs the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control or influence. these factors include but are not limited to the following: general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; economic or political events, trends, and unexpected developments occurring nationally, globally, or in any of our key sales regions; variations in our quarterly operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity; variations in our revenues, earnings, or other business and financial metrics from forecasts by us or securities analysts or from those experienced by other companies in our industry; announcements of restructurings, reductions in force, departure of key employees, and/or consolidations of operations; government regulations; developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 23 table of contents technological innovations and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; commercial success or failure of our new and existing products; disruptions of relationships with key customers or suppliers; or dilutive impacts of our convertible notes and related warrants. in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors. these and other factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management's attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our common stock. intellectual property, indemnity, and other claims against us can be costly and we could lose significant rights that are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. from time to time, other persons send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues. we also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships. in addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and members of our board of directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to us. from time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters. we have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third-party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties. moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles. we may fail to protect our critical proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights, and trade secret protection. protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. as part of our strategy to protect our technology, we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes, and techniques as trade secrets. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the u.s. or foreign governments issue to us; these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications; or we may lose trade secret protection over valuable information due to the intentional or unintentional actions or omissions of third parties, of ours, or even of our own employees. additionally, intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and even when patents are issued or trade secret processes are followed, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the united states. the rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents, pending patent applications, or trade secrets may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. moreover, because we determine the jurisdictions in which to file patents at the time of filing, we may not have adequate protection in the future based on such previous decisions. any of these circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our business. continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 24 table of contents we are exposed to various risks from our regulatory environment we are subject to various risks related to (1) new, different, inconsistent, or even conflicting laws, rules, and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries that we operate; (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; and (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules, and regulations. as a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, anti-corruption, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, conflict minerals or other social responsibility legislation, immigration or travel regulations, and antitrust regulations, among others. each of these laws, rules, and regulations imposes costs on our business, including financial costs and potential diversion of our management's attention associated with compliance, and may present risks to our business, including potential fines, restrictions on our actions, and reputational damage if we are unable to fully comply. to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all evolving standards. changes in or ambiguous interpretations of laws, regulations, and standards may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. efforts to comply with new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased selling, general, and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. if we are found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance with the laws and regulations, our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations could be adversely affected. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase our shares at all or in any particular amounts our board of directors has declared quarterly dividends since april 2014. our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and, in the case of dividends, periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model. our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. a reduction or suspension in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investments we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. as of june 25, 2017 , our mutual funds are classified as trading securities. investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. any material differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities is recognized as other income (expense) in our consolidated statement of operations. all of our other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. interest rate risk fixed-income securities our investments in various interest-earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. at any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed-income investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. we target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our capital by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and concentration risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed-income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 25, 2017 ,were as follows: valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x basis points june 25, 2017 (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) % 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) time deposit $ 640,666 $ 640,666 $ 640,666 $ 640,666 $ 640,666 $ 640,666 $ 640,666 municipal notes and bonds 197,037 196,890 195,918 194,876 193,834 192,792 191,751 u.s. treasury and agencies 821,172 813,220 804,147 795,049 785,862 776,677 767,493 government-sponsored enterprises 25,355 25,069 24,783 24,496 24,210 23,924 23,638 foreign government bonds 65,205 64,482 63,752 63,022 62,292 61,563 60,833 bank and corporate notes 2,494,798 2,475,500 2,455,967 2,436,436 2,416,907 2,397,381 2,377,857 mortgage backed securities - residential 105,825 104,728 103,543 102,358 101,171 99,984 98,797 mortgage backed securities - commercial 68,710 67,719 66,729 65,739 64,750 63,761 62,773 total $ 4,418,768 $ 4,388,274 $ 4,355,505 $ 4,322,642 $ 4,289,692 $ 4,256,748 $ 4,223,808 we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 45 table of contents long-term debt as of june 25, 2017 , we had $2.9 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate long-term debt outstanding, with a fair value of $5.8 billion . the fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk, and other factors due to the convertible feature, as applicable. generally, the fair value of notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. additionally, the fair value of the convertible notes will increase as our common stock price increases and decrease as our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of our notes but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. we do not carry the notes at fair value, but present the fair value of the principal amount of our notes for disclosure purposes. equity price risk publicly traded securities the values of our investments in publicly traded securities, including mutual funds related to our obligations under our deferred compensation plans, are subject to market price risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded securities that would result from potential decreases and increases in the price of each security in the portfolio. potential fluctuations in the price of each security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, or 25% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. the hypothetical fair values as of june 25, 2017 , were as follows: valuation of securities given an x% decrease in stock price fair value as of valuation of securities given an x% increase in stock price june 25, 2017 (25)% (15)% (10)% % 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) mutual funds $ 42,191 $ 47,816 $ 50,629 56,254 $ 61,879 $ 64,692 $ 70,318 foreign currency exchange ( fx ) risk we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated and korean won-denominated expenses. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables. in addition, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily on revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won. to protect against the reduction in value of anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won, we enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts that generally expire within 12 months and no later than 24 months. these foreign currency hedge contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value, with the effective portion of the contracts' gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue and/or expense is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of certain non-u.s.-dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income (expense), net, and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities also recorded in other income (expense), net, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the hedged items. the notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward and option contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges, as of june 25, 2017 , are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 46 table of contents assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus or minus 10 percent and plus or minus 15 percent. notional amount unrealized fx gain/(loss) valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each june 25, 2017 = +/- (10%) = +/- (15%) (in millions) forward contracts sell japanese yen $ 670.2 $ (1.4 ) $ 66.4 $ 99.6 buy euro 58.9 2.7 6.1 9.1 buy korean won 22.0 2.2 3.3 $ 1.3 $ 74.7 $ 112.0 option contracts buy put japanese yen $ 36.0 $ 1.0 $ 3.2 $ 4.5 buy put de-designated (1) japanese yen 26.5 0.2 2.0 3.0 sell put (2) japanese yen 26.5 (0.2 ) 1.9 3.0 $ 1.0 $ 7.1 $ 10.5 (1) contracts were entered into and designated as cash flow hedges under asc 815 during the fiscal year as part of our cash flow hedge program. the contracts were subsequently de-designated during the year ended june 25, 2017. changes in fair market value subsequent to de-designation affect current earnings. (2) contracts were entered into to offset the de-designated buy put contracts, and while not designated as a cash flow hedge they are considered to be part of our cash flow hedge program. changes in fair market value effect current earnings. the notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges, as of june 25, 2017 , are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus or minus 10 percent and plus or minus 15 percent. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net, by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. notional amount unrealized fx gain/(loss) valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each june 25, 2017 = +/- (10%) = +/- (15%) (in millions) forward contracts, balance sheet hedge sell japanese yen $ 269.5 $ $ 26.9 $ 40.4 sell korean won 34.1 0.2 3.4 5.1 buy euro 18.4 1.9 2.7 buy taiwan dollar 11.2 1.1 1.7 buy swiss francs 8.7 0.9 1.3 buy chinese renminbi 7.2 0.7 1.1 $ 0.2 $ 34.9 $ 52.3 continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 47 table of contents interest rate contracts interest rate risk is present with both fixed- and floating-rate debt. interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges are used to mitigate our exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt resulting from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the swap agreements. interest rate swaps may also be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate, based on market conditions, and for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. during the fiscal year ended june 26, 2016, we entered into a series of interest rate contracts with a total notional value of $400 million where we received fixed rates and paid variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates. such interest rate swap arrangements were designated as fair value hedges of the fair value of the underlying debt instrument. the following table shows the change in fair value of these fair value hedges, assuming a hypothetical benchmark interest rate movement of plus or minus 10 bps and plus or minus 15 bps. valuation of fair value hedge given an interest rate increase of x basis points fair value as of valuation of fair value hedge given an interest rate decrease of x basis points june 25, 2017 10 bps 15 bps % (10 bps) (15 bps) (in millions) interest rate contracts $ 7.3 $ 5.9 $ 10.1 $ 12.9 $ 14.3 interest rate risk is also present on anticipated issuances of debt. we manage our interest rate exposure on anticipated issuances of debt through forward-starting interest rate swap agreements. forward-starting interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges are used to mitigate our exposure to changes in future interest payments that results from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates prior to the issuance of the debt. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the interest cash flows of the company's anticipated debt issuances, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the forward-starting interest rate swap agreements. during the fiscal year ended june 26, 2016, we entered into and settled a series of forward-starting interest rate swap agreements with a total notional value of $600 million, associated with our june 2016 debt offering. such forward-starting interest rate swap agreements were designated as hedges of the cash flows associated with benchmark interest rates underlying future interest payments on the june 2016 debt issuances. continues on next page lam research corporation 2017 10-k 48 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k ( 2018 form 10-k ), the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear. the semiconductor capital equipment industry is subject to variability and periods of rapid growth or decline; we therefore face risks related to our strategic resource allocation decisions the semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand. the industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry. variability in our customers' business plans may lead to changes in demand for our equipment and services, which could negatively impact our results. the variability in our customers' investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors, including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers' ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices. the changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 15 table of contents infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. if we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of increasing or declining demand, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted. we continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment. if we do not adequately adapt to the changing business environment, we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during a period of growth, or we may expand our capacity too rapidly and/or beyond what is appropriate for the actual demand environment, resulting in excess fixed costs. especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes. our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. future declines in the semiconductor industry, and the overall world economic conditions on which it is significantly dependent, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. with the consolidation of customers within the industry, the semiconductor capital equipment market may experience rapid changes in demand driven both by changes in the market generally and the plans and requirements of particular customers. the economic, political, and business conditions occurring nationally, globally, or in any of our key sales regions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. additionally, in times of economic uncertainty, our customers' budgets for our products, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. this would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. as a result, changing business or economic conditions can cause material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition, including but not limited to: a decline in demand for our products or services; an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers' inability to pay us; an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; a decline in the value of our investments; exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply. fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers may materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues, operating results, and earnings. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in r&amp;d and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our profitability and other financial results. continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 16 table of contents our quarterly revenues and operating results are variable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a small number of transactions can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries in general and specifically the semiconductor equipment industry; the size and timing of orders from customers; consolidation of the customer base, which may result in the investment decisions of one customer or market having a significant effect on demand for our products or services; procurement shortages; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; manufacturing difficulties; customer cancellations or delays in shipments, installations, and/or customer acceptances; the extent that customers continue to purchase and use our products and services in their business; our customers' reuse of existing and installed products, to the extent that such reuse decreases their need to purchase new products or services; changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new, enhanced, and competitive products in a timely manner; our competitors' introduction of new products; legal or technical challenges to our products and technologies; transportation, communication, demand, information technology, or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control, such as strikes, acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, and natural or man-made disasters; legal, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes (including but not limited to change in import/export regulations and tariffs) or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing requirements; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and the dilutive impact of our convertible notes (as defined below) and related warrants on our earnings per share. we may incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets identified in business combinations and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business units, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. if, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. we operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill in one or more of our business units, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations. continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 17 table of contents our leverage and debt service obligations and potential note conversion or related hedging activities may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and earnings per share we have $2.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding. additionally, we have funding available to us under our $1.25 billion commercial paper program and our $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which serves as a backstop to our commercial paper program. our revolving credit facility also includes an option to increase the amount up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion. we may, in the future, decide to enter into additional debt arrangements. in addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt. we could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments. our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: risk associated with any inability to satisfy our obligations; a portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes; and impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows, to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. as a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. if we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. conversion of our convertible notes and the exercise of the related warrants may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share. the number of shares of our common stock into which the convertible notes are convertible and for which related warrants are exercisable for may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders. upon conversion of any convertible notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the convertible notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the convertible notes, shares of our common stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. this dilution may not be completely mitigated by the hedging transactions we entered into in connection with the sale of certain convertible notes or through share repurchases. prior to the maturity of the convertible notes, if the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share. the price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and also by hedging activity that may develop involving our common stock by holders of the convertible notes. our credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business we may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, or obtain additional financing because our debt agreements contain, and any of our other future similar agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees; create liens; enter into transactions with our affiliates; sell certain assets; and merge or consolidate with any person. continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 18 table of contents our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. in addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the senior notes, the convertible notes, or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. if any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments, cash flows, collections, and profitability. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that is difficult to predict. in addition, large customers may be able to negotiate requirements that result in decreased pricing, increased costs, and/or lower margins for us; compliance with specific environmental, social, and corporate governance standards; and limitations on our ability to share jointly developed technology with others. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. we depend on creating new products and processes and enhancing existing products and processes for our success. consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products or existing products have reliability, quality, design, or safety problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture products successfully, or products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. for more than 25 years, the primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips. that driver could be approaching its technological limit, leading semiconductor manufacturers to investigate more complex changes in multiple technologies in an effort to continue technology development. in the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements. our failure to develop and offer the correct technology solutions in a timely manner with productive and cost-effective products could adversely affect our business in a material way. our failure to commercialize new products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. in order to develop new products and processes and enhance existing products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r&amp;d, to investigate the acquisition of new products and technologies, to invest in or acquire such business or technologies, and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers, or other members of the industry. our investments and acquisitions may not be as successful as we may expect, particularly as we seek to invest or acquire product lines and technologies that are new to us. we may find that acquisitions are not available to us, for regulatory or other reasons, and that we must therefore limit ourselves to collaboration and joint venture development activities, which do not have the same benefits as acquisitions. pursuing development through collaboration and/or joint development activities rather than through an acquisition poses substantial challenges for management, including those related to aligning business objectives, sharing confidential information and intellectual property, sharing value with third parties, and realizing synergies that might have been available in an acquisition but are not available through a joint development project. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products and certain jointly developed technologies may be subject to restrictions on our ability to share that technology with other customers, which could limit our market for products incorporating those technologies. future technologies, processes, or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, obsolete inventory, or both. moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next-generation devices. this shift may result in a continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 19 table of contents reduction in the size of our addressable markets or could increase the relative size of markets in which we either do not compete or have relatively low market share. we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products. our products are priced up to approximately $11 million per system. as a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significantly adverse impact on our revenues for a given quarter, and, in the longer term, the continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products, a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products, export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customers or customers within certain markets, an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the markets in which we participate, increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines, technological changes that we are unable to address with our products, or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. in addition, the fact that we offer limited product lines creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products and/or product capabilities. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. our business is affected by our customers' use of our products in certain steps in their wafer fabrication processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductors requires fewer steps using our products, this could have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. strategic alliances and customer consolidation may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor manufacturing companies are entering into strategic alliances or consolidating with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies and/or achieve economies of scale. the outcomes of such an alliance can be the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function and/or the standardization of a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment, while the outcomes of consolidation can lead to an overall reduction in the market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment as customers' operations achieve economies of scale and/or increased purchasing power based on their higher volumes. in certain instances, this could work to our disadvantage if a competitor's tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such functions or processes. additional outcomes of such consolidation may include our customers re-evaluating their future supplier relationships to consider our competitors' products and/or gaining additional influence over the pricing of products and the control of intellectual property. similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor's equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. even if they select our equipment, the institutions and the customers that follow their lead could impose conditions on acceptance of that equipment, such as adherence to standards and requirements or limitations on how we license our proprietary rights, that increase our costs or require us to take on greater risk. these actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results. we depend on a limited number of key suppliers and outsource providers, and we run the risk that they might not perform as we expect outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. these providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 20 table of contents subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us, or be unable to meet our requirements or expectation due to their independent business decisions or force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect. although we attempt to select reputable providers and suppliers and we attempt to secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers or suppliers could fail to perform as we expect, or fail to secure or protect intellectual property rights, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances. there is therefore a risk that a prolonged inability to obtain certain components or secure key services could impair our ability to manage operations, ship products, and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships. we face risks related to the disruption of our primary manufacturing facilities our manufacturing facilities are concentrated in a limited number of locations. these locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, utility interruptions, or other events beyond our control. such disruptions may cause delays in shipping our products, which could result in the loss of business or customer trust, adversely affecting our business and operating results. once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor's semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor's equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier's processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor's equipment for the same product line application. we face a challenging and complex competitive environment we face significant competition from multiple competitors, and with increased consolidation efforts in our industry, we may face increasing competitive pressures. other companies continue to develop systems and/or acquire businesses and products that are competitive to ours and may introduce new products and product capabilities that may affect our ability to sell and support our existing products. we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we must devote significant financial resources to offer products that meet our customers' needs, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r&amp;d. certain of our competitors, including those that are created and financially backed by foreign governments, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to offer customers a more comprehensive array of products and/or product capabilities and to therefore achieve additional relative success in the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. we also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours. in addition, we face competition from companies that exist in a more favorable legal or regulatory environment than we do, allowing the freedom of action in ways that we may be unable to match. in many cases speed to solution is necessary for customer satisfaction and our competitors may be better positioned to achieve these objectives. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 21 table of contents in addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, competition may intensify, and we may be unable to continue to compete successfully in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. our future success depends heavily on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales, as reflected in part 1 item 1. business of this 2018 form 10-k, accounted for approximately 93% , 92% , and 92% of total revenue in fiscal years 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 , respectively. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue in future years. we are subject to various challenges related to international sales and the management of global operations including, but not limited to: trade balance issues; tariffs and other barriers; developing customers and/or suppliers, whom may have limited access to capital resources. global or national economic and political conditions; changes in currency controls; differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts, and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers; compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including u.s. and international trade restrictions and sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, environmental, tax, and labor laws; fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business. there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among china, japan, korea, taiwan, and the united states, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions. this would adversely affect our business with china, japan, korea, and/or taiwan and perhaps the entire asia pacific region. a significant trade disruption in any area where we do business could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. tariffs, additional taxes or trade barriers may increase our manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial conditions. in addition, there are risks that foreign governments may, among other things, insist on the use of local suppliers; compel companies to partner with local companies to design and supply equipment on a local basis, requiring the transfer of intellectual property rights and/or local manufacturing; and provide special incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local competitors, even if their products are inferior to ours; all of which could adversely impact our revenues and margins. certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. government. our failure or inability to obtain such licenses could potentially limit our markets and impact our revenues. many of the challenges noted above are applicable in china, which is a fast-developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of anticipated growth for our business. we are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won. currently, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses dominated in euro and korean won. in addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables. we believe these are our continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 22 table of contents primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. we expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over or under hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures. therefore, we are subject to potential unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in these currencies. the magnitude of our overseas business also affects where our cash is generated. certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances. since the majority of our cash is generated outside of the united states, this may impact certain business decisions and outcomes. our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees is critical to our success our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees with the appropriate skills, experiences and competencies. this is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. we periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain, and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. certain critical information systems, that we rely on for the operation of our business, and products that we sell are susceptible to cybersecurity and other threats or incidents we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include but are not limited to, telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, (some of which may be integrated into the products that we sell or be required in order to provide the services that we offer), network communications, and email. these information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsourced providers, or third parties such as vendors, contractors, and cloud providers. in addition, we make use of software-as-a-service (saas) products for certain important business functions that are provided by third parties and hosted on their own networks and servers, or third party networks and servers, all of which rely on networks, email and/or the internet for their function. all of these information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure from various sources, including those using techniques that change frequently or may be disguised or difficult to detect, or designed to remain dormant until a triggering event, or that may continue undetected for an extended period of time. those sources may include mistakes or unauthorized actions by our employees or contractors; phishing schemes and other third-party attacks, and degradation or loss of service or access to our data due to viruses, malware, denial of service attacks, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment. we have experienced cyber threats and incidents in the past. although past threats and incidents have not resulted in a material adverse effect, we may incur material losses related to cyber threats or incidents in the future. if we were subject to a cyber incident, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. such adverse effects might include: loss of (or inability to access, e.g. through ransomware) confidential and/or sensitive information including intellectual property stored on these critical information systems or transmitted to or from those systems; continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 23 table of contents the disruption of the proper function of our products, services and/or operations; the failure of our or our customers' manufacturing processes; errors in the output of our work or our customers' work; the loss or public exposure of the personal information of our employees or customers; the public release of customer orders, financial and business plans, and operational results; exposure to claims from third parties who are adversely impacted by such incidents; misappropriation or theft of company, customer, supplier, or other's assets or resources, and costs associated therewith; diminution in the value of lam's investment in research, development and engineering; or our failure to meet, or violation of, regulatory or other legal obligations, such as the timely publication or filing of financial statements, tax information and other required communications. while we have implemented iso 27001 compliant security procedures and virus protection software, intrusion prevention systems, identity and access control, and emergency recovery processes, and we carefully select our third party providers of information systems, to mitigate risks to the information systems that we rely on, those mitigation and protection systems cannot be guaranteed to be fail-safe and we may still suffer cyber-related incidents. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities. these factors could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of domestic and international governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous chemicals. failure to comply with present or future environmental regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, require us to suspend production, and/or cease operations, or cause our customers to not accept our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, acquire significant additional equipment, incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations, or take other actions. any failure to comply with regulations governing the use, handling, sale, transport, or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and ability to operate our business. if we choose to acquire or dispose of businesses, product lines, and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. as a result, we may seek to make acquisitions of complementary companies, products, or technologies, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. for regulatory or other reasons, we may not be successful in our attempts to acquire or dispose of businesses, products, or technologies, resulting in significant financial costs, reduced or lost opportunities, and diversion of management's attention. managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies, or reducing personnel entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, adverse customer reaction to our decision to cease support for a product, and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 24 table of contents successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. in addition, any acquisition could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or the price of our common stock. the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital or make acquisitions or may subject our business to additional costs the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control or influence. these factors include but are not limited to the following: general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; economic or political events, trends, and unexpected developments occurring nationally, globally, or in any of our key sales regions; variations in our quarterly operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity; variations in our revenues, earnings, or other business and financial metrics from forecasts by us or securities analysts or from those experienced by other companies in our industry; announcements of restructurings, reductions in force, departure of key employees, and/or consolidations of operations; government regulations; developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; technological innovations and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; commercial success or failure of our new and existing products; disruptions of relationships with key customers or suppliers; or dilutive impacts of our convertible notes and related warrants. in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors. these and other factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management's attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our common stock. continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 25 table of contents intellectual property, indemnity, and other claims against us can be costly and we could lose significant rights that are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. from time to time, other persons send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues. we also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships. in addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and members of our board of directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to us. from time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters. we have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third-party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties. moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles. we may fail to protect our critical proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights, and trade secret protection. protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. as part of our strategy to protect our technology, we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes, and techniques as trade secrets. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the u.s. or foreign governments issue to us; these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications; or we may lose trade secret protection over valuable information due to the intentional or unintentional actions or omissions of third parties, of ours, or even of our own employees. additionally, intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and even when patents are issued or trade secret processes are followed, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the united states. the rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents, pending patent applications, or trade secrets may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. moreover, because we determine the jurisdictions in which to file patents at the time of filing, we may not have adequate protection in the future based on such previous decisions. any of these circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our business. we are exposed to various risks from our regulatory environment we are subject to various risks related to (1) new, different, inconsistent, or even conflicting laws, rules, and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries that we operate; (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; and (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules, and regulations. as a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, anti-corruption, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, conflict minerals or other social responsibility legislation, immigration or travel regulations, and antitrust regulations, among others. each of these laws, rules, and regulations imposes costs on our business, including financial costs and potential diversion of our management's attention associated with compliance, and may present risks to our business, including potential fines, restrictions on our actions, and reputational damage if we are unable to fully comply. to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all evolving standards. changes in or ambiguous interpretations of laws, continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 26 table of contents regulations, and standards may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. efforts to comply with new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased selling, general, and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. if we are found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance with the laws and regulations, our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations could be adversely affected. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase our shares at all or in any particular amounts our board of directors has declared quarterly dividends since april 2014. our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends and share repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal, state, and international income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model. our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. a reduction or suspension in our dividend payments or share repurchases could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investments we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. as of june 24, 2018 , our mutual funds are classified as trading securities. investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. any material differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities is recognized as other income (expense) in our consolidated statement of operations. all of our other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. interest rate risk fixed-income securities our investments in various interest-earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. at any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed-income investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. we target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our capital by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and concentration risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed-income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 24, 2018 ,were as follows: valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x basis points june 24, 2018 (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) % 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) municipal notes and bonds 153,974 153,365 152,750 152,136 151,521 150,906 150,292 u.s. treasury and agencies 357,056 356,874 356,692 356,509 356,327 356,145 355,963 government-sponsored enterprises 111,104 110,990 110,876 110,762 110,648 110,534 110,420 foreign government bonds 19,999 19,995 19,990 19,985 19,981 19,976 19,971 bank and corporate notes 518,765 517,798 516,832 515,866 514,899 513,933 512,967 mortgage backed securities - residential 849 833 817 801 785 770 754 total $ 1,161,747 $ 1,159,855 $ 1,157,957 $ 1,156,059 $ 1,154,161 $ 1,152,264 $ 1,150,367 we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 47 table of contents long-term debt as of june 24, 2018 , we had $2.1 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate long-term debt outstanding, with a fair value of $3.5 billion . the fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk, and other factors due to the convertible feature, as applicable. generally, the fair value of notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. additionally, the fair value of the 2041 notes will increase as our common stock price increases and decrease as our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of our notes but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. we do not carry the notes at fair value, but present the fair value of the principal amount of our notes for disclosure purposes. equity price risk publicly traded securities the values of our investments in publicly traded securities, including mutual funds related to our obligations under our deferred compensation plans, are subject to market price risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded securities that would result from potential decreases and increases in the price of each security in the portfolio. potential fluctuations in the price of each security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, or 25% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. the hypothetical fair values as of june 24, 2018 , were as follows: valuation of securities given an x% decrease in stock price fair value as of valuation of securities given an x% increase in stock price june 24, 2018 (25)% (15)% (10)% % 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) mutual funds $ 51,707 $ 58,601 $ 62,048 68,942 $ 75,836 $ 79,283 $ 86,178 foreign currency exchange ( fx ) risk we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated and korean won-denominated expenses. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables. in addition, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily on revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won. to protect against adverse movements in value of anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won, we enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts that generally expire within 12 months and no later than 24 months. the option contracts include collars, an option strategy that is comprised of a combination of a purchased put option and a written call option with the same expiration dates and japanese yen notional amounts but with different strike prices. these foreign currency hedge contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value, with the effective portion of the contracts' gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue and/or expense is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of certain non-u.s.-dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income (expense), net, and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities also recorded in other income (expense), net, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the hedged items. the notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward and option contracts that are continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 48 table of contents designated as cash flow hedges, as of june 24, 2018 , are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus or minus 10 percent and plus or minus 15 percent. notional amount unrealized fx gain/(loss) valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each june 24, 2018 = +/- (10%) = +/- (15%) (in millions) forward contracts sell japanese yen $ 569.0 $ 1.1 $ 55.8 $ 83.7 buy euro 102.6 (4.7 ) 10.7 17.0 buy korean won 28.9 (0.6 ) 2.8 4.2 $ (4.2 ) $ 69.3 $ 104.9 option contracts (1) buy put japanese yen $ 9.0 $ 0.2 $ 0.7 $ 1.0 sell call japanese yen 9.7 (0.1 ) $ 0.1 $ 0.7 $ 1.0 (1) the local currency notional amounts of these foreign currency option contracts are equal to each other. the notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges, as of june 24, 2018 , are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus or minus 10 percent and plus or minus 15 percent. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net, by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. notional amount unrealized fx gain/(loss) valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each june 24, 2018 = +/- (10%) = +/- (15%) (in millions) forward contracts, balance sheet hedge sell japanese yen $ 267.4 $ 0.1 $ 26.7 $ 40.0 sell korean won 99.4 9.9 14.9 buy euro 45.3 14.9 16.6 buy taiwan dollar 31.9 3.2 4.8 buy singapore dollar 21.4 2.2 3.2 buy british pound 15.9 0.9 1.3 buy swiss francs 14.9 1.5 2.2 buy chinese renminbi 2.5 0.2 0.4 buy indian rupee 3.2 0.3 0.5 $ 0.1 $ 59.8 $ 83.9 continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 49 table of contents interest rate contracts interest rate risk is present with both fixed- and floating-rate debt. interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges are used to mitigate our exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt resulting from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the swap agreements. interest rate swaps may also be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate, based on market conditions, and for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. during the fiscal year ended june 26, 2016, we entered into a series of interest rate contracts with a total notional value of $400 million where we received fixed rates and paid variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates. such interest rate swap arrangements were designated as fair value hedges of the fair value of the underlying debt instrument. the following table shows the change in fair value of these fair value hedges, assuming a hypothetical benchmark interest rate movement of plus or minus 10 bps and plus or minus 15 bps. valuation of fair value hedge given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of valuation of fair value hedge given an interest rate increase of x basis points june 24, 2018 10 bps 15 bps % (10 bps) (15 bps) (in millions) interest rate contracts $ 33.6 $ 34.8 $ 31.2 $ 28.8 $ 27.6 interest rate risk is also present on anticipated issuances of debt. we manage our interest rate exposure on anticipated issuances of debt through forward-starting interest rate swap agreements. forward-starting interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges are used to mitigate our exposure to changes in future interest payments that results from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates prior to the issuance of the debt. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the interest cash flows of the company's anticipated debt issuances, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the forward-starting interest rate swap agreements. during the fiscal year ended june 26, 2016, we entered into and settled a series of forward-starting interest rate swap agreements with a total notional value of $600 million, associated with our june 2016 debt offering. such forward-starting interest rate swap agreements were designated as hedges of the cash flows associated with benchmark interest rates underlying future interest payments on the june 2016 debt issuances. continues on next page lam research corporation 2018 10-k 50 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k ( 2019 form 10-k ), the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended by, nor should be attached to, the order in which the risk factors appear. the semiconductor capital equipment industry is subject to variability and periods of rapid growth or decline; we therefore face risks related to our strategic resource allocation decisions the semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand. the industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers, accentuated by consolidation within the industry. variability in our customers' business plans may lead to changes in demand for our equipment and services, which could negatively impact our results. the variability in our customers' investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors, including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers' ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices. the changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. if we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of increasing or declining demand, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted. we continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment. if we do not adequately adapt to the changing business environment, we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during a period of growth, or we may expand our capacity too rapidly and/or beyond what is appropriate for the actual demand environment, resulting in excess fixed costs. especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes. our success will depend, to a continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 14 table of contents significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. future declines in the semiconductor industry, and the overall world economic conditions on which it is significantly dependent, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. with the consolidation of customers within the industry, the semiconductor capital equipment market may experience rapid changes in demand driven both by changes in the market generally and the plans and requirements of particular customers. the economic, political, and business conditions occurring nationally, globally, or in any of our key sales regions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. additionally, in times of economic uncertainty, our customers' budgets for our products, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. this would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. as a result, changing economic, political or business conditions can cause material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition, including but not limited to: a decline in demand for our products or services; an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers' inability to pay us; an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; a decline in the value of our investments; exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply. fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers may materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues, operating results, and earnings. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in r&amp;d and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our profitability and other financial results. our revenues and operating results are variable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a small number of transactions can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter or year. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries in general and specifically the semiconductor equipment industry; the size and timing of orders from customers; consolidation of the customer base, which may result in the investment decisions of one customer or market having a significant effect on demand for our products or services; procurement shortages; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; manufacturing difficulties; continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 15 table of contents customer cancellations or delays in shipments, installations, and/or customer acceptances; the extent that customers continue to purchase and use our products and services in their business; our customers' reuse of existing and installed products, to the extent that such reuse decreases their need to purchase new products or services; changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new, enhanced, and competitive products in a timely manner; our competitors' introduction of new products; legal or technical challenges to our products and technologies; transportation, communication, demand, information technology, or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control, such as strikes, acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, and natural or man-made disasters; legal, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes (including but not limited to change in import/export regulations and tariffs) or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing requirements; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and the dilutive impact of our convertible notes (as defined below) on our earnings per share. we may incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets identified in business combinations and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business units, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. if, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. we operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill in one or more of our business units, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations. our leverage and debt service obligations and potential note conversion or related hedging activities may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and earnings per share we have $4.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes, convertible notes, and commercial paper instruments outstanding. additionally, we have funding available to us under our $1.25 billion commercial paper program and our $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which serves as a backstop to our commercial paper program. our revolving credit facility also includes an option to increase the amount up to an additional $600 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion. we may, in the future, decide to enter into additional debt arrangements. in addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt. we could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments. our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: risk associated with any inability to satisfy our obligations; a portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes; and impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 16 table of contents our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows, to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. as a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. if we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. conversion of our convertible notes may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share. the number of shares of our common stock into which the convertible notes are convertible may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders. upon conversion of any convertible notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the convertible notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the convertible notes, shares of our common stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. prior to the maturity of the convertible notes, if the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share. the price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and also by hedging activity that may develop involving our common stock by holders of the convertible notes. our credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business we may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, or obtain additional financing because our debt agreements contain, and any of our other future similar agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees; create liens; enter into transactions with our affiliates; sell certain assets; and merge or consolidate with any person. our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. in addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the senior notes, the convertible notes, or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. if any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments, cash flows, collections, and profitability. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that is difficult to predict. in addition, large customers may be able to negotiate requirements that result in decreased pricing, increased costs, and/or lower margins for us; compliance with specific environmental, social, and corporate governance standards; and limitations on our ability to share technology with others. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 17 table of contents we depend on creating new products and processes and enhancing existing products and processes for our success; consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products or existing products have reliability, quality, design, or safety problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture products successfully, or products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. for more than 25 years, the primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips. that driver could be approaching its technological limit, leading semiconductor manufacturers to investigate more complex changes in multiple technologies in an effort to continue technology development. in the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements. our failure to develop and offer the correct technology solutions in a timely manner with productive and cost-effective products could adversely affect our business in a material way. our failure to commercialize new products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. in order to develop new products and processes and enhance existing products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r&amp;d, to investigate the acquisition of new products and technologies, to invest in or acquire such business or technologies, and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers, or other members of the industry. our investments and acquisitions may not be as successful as we may expect, particularly as we seek to invest or acquire product lines and technologies that are new to us. we may find that acquisitions are not available to us, for regulatory or other reasons, and that we must therefore limit ourselves to collaboration and joint venture development activities, which do not have the same benefits as acquisitions. pursuing development through collaboration and/or joint development activities rather than through an acquisition poses substantial challenges for management, including those related to aligning business objectives; sharing confidential information, intellectual property and data; sharing value with third parties; and realizing synergies that might have been available in an acquisition but are not available through a joint development project. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products and certain jointly developed technologies may be subject to restrictions on our ability to share that technology with other customers, which could limit our market for products incorporating those technologies. future technologies, processes, or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, obsolete inventory, or both. moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next-generation devices. this shift may result in a reduction in the size of our addressable markets or could increase the relative size of markets in which we either do not compete or have relatively low market share. we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products. our products are priced up to approximately $11 million per system. as a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significantly adverse impact on our revenues for a given quarter, and, in the longer term, the continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products, a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products, export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customers or customers within certain markets, an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the markets in which we participate, increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines, increased pressure from regional competitors, technological changes that we are unable to address with our products, or continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 18 table of contents a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. in addition, the fact that we offer limited product lines creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products and/or product capabilities. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. our business is affected by our customers' use of our products in certain steps in their wafer fabrication processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductors requires fewer steps using our products, this could have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. strategic alliances and customer consolidation may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor manufacturing companies are entering into strategic alliances or consolidating with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies and/or achieve economies of scale. the outcomes of such an alliance can be the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function and/or the standardization of a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment, while the outcomes of consolidation can lead to an overall reduction in the market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment as customers' operations achieve economies of scale and/or increased purchasing power based on their higher volumes. in certain instances, this could work to our disadvantage if a competitor's tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such functions or processes. additional outcomes of such consolidation may include our customers re-evaluating their future supplier relationships to consider our competitors' products and/or gaining additional influence over the pricing of products and the control of intellectual property or data. similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor's equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. even if they select our equipment, the institutions and the customers that follow their lead could impose conditions on acceptance of that equipment, such as adherence to standards and requirements or limitations on how we license our proprietary rights, that increase our costs or require us to take on greater risk. these actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results. we depend on a limited number of key suppliers and outsource providers, and we run the risk that they might not perform as we expect outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our product development, manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. these providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us, or be unable to meet our requirements or expectation due to their independent business decisions or force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect. although we attempt to select reputable providers and suppliers and we attempt to secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers or suppliers could fail to perform as we expect, or fail to secure or protect intellectual property rights, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances. there is therefore a risk that a prolonged inability to obtain certain components or secure key services could impair our ability to manage operations, ship products, and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships. continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 19 table of contents we face risks related to the disruption of our primary manufacturing facilities while we maintain business continuity plans, our manufacturing facilities are concentrated in a limited number of locations. these locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, utility interruptions, or other events beyond our control. such disruptions may cause delays in shipping our products, which could result in the loss of business or customer trust, adversely affecting our business and operating results. once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor's semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor's equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier's processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer for a product line application if that customer initially selects a competitor's equipment for the same product line application. we face a challenging and complex competitive environment we face significant competition from multiple competitors, and with increased consolidation efforts in our industry, as well as the emergence and strengthening of new, regional competitors, we may face increasing competitive pressures. other companies continue to develop systems and/or acquire businesses and products that are competitive to ours and may introduce new products and product capabilities that may affect our ability to sell and support our existing products. we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we must devote significant financial resources to offer products that meet our customers' needs, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r&amp;d. certain of our competitors, including those that are created and financially backed by foreign governments, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to offer customers a more comprehensive array of products and/or product capabilities and to therefore achieve additional relative success in the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. we also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours. in addition, we face competition from companies that exist in a more favorable legal or regulatory environment than we do, allowing the freedom of action in ways that we may be unable to match. in many cases speed to solution is necessary for customer satisfaction and our competitors may be better positioned to achieve these objectives. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. in addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, competition may intensify, and we may be unable to continue to compete successfully in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. our future success depends heavily on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales, as reflected in part ii item 7. results of operation of this 2019 form 10-k, accounted for approximately 92% , 93% , and 92% of total revenue in fiscal years 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue in future years. continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 20 table of contents we are subject to various challenges related to international sales and the management of global operations including, but not limited to: domestic and international trade policies, practices, relations, disputes and issues; domestic and international tariffs, export controls and other barriers; developing customers and/or suppliers, who may have limited access to capital resources. global or national economic and political conditions; changes in currency controls; differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts, and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers; compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including u.s. and international trade restrictions and sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, environmental, tax, and labor laws; fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business. there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among china, japan, korea, taiwan, and the united states, that political, diplomatic and national security influences might lead to trade disputes, impacts and/or disruptions, in particular those affecting the semiconductor industry. this would adversely affect our business with china, japan, korea, and/or taiwan and perhaps the entire asia pacific region or global economy. a significant trade dispute, impact and/or disruption in any area where we do business could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. tariffs, export controls, additional taxes, trade barriers or sanctions may increase our manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial conditions. in addition, there are risks that foreign governments may, among other things, insist on the use of local suppliers; compel companies to partner with local companies to design and supply equipment on a local basis, requiring the transfer of intellectual property rights and/or local manufacturing; utilize their influence over their judicial systems to respond to intellectual property disputes or issues; and provide special incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local competitors, even if their products are inferior to ours; all of which could adversely impact our revenues and margins. certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. or foreign governments. our failure or inability to obtain such licenses, or an expansion of the number or kinds of sales for which export licenses are required, could potentially limit our markets and impact our revenues. many of the challenges noted above are applicable in china, which is a fast-developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of anticipated growth for our business. we are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won. currently, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses dominated in euro and korean won. in addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables. we believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. we expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over or under hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures. therefore, we are subject to potential unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in these currencies. continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 21 table of contents the magnitude of our overseas business also affects where our cash is generated. certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances. since the majority of our cash is generated outside of the united states, this may impact certain business decisions and outcomes. our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees is critical to our success our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees with the appropriate skills, experiences and competencies. this is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion, and these factors in combination may result in cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. we periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain, and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. certain critical information systems, that we rely on for the operation of our business and products that we sell, are susceptible to cybersecurity and other threats or incidents we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include but are not limited to, telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, (some of which may be integrated into the products that we sell or be required in order to provide the services that we offer), network communications, and email. these information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsourced providers, or third parties such as vendors, contractors, customers and cloud providers. in addition, we make use of software-as-a-service (saas) products for certain important business functions that are provided by third parties and hosted on their own networks and servers, or third-party networks and servers, all of which rely on networks, email and/or the internet for their function. all of these information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure from various sources, including those using techniques that change frequently or may be disguised or difficult to detect, or designed to remain dormant until a triggering event, or that may continue undetected for an extended period of time. those sources may include mistakes or unauthorized actions by our employees or contractors, phishing schemes and other third-party attacks, and degradation or loss of service or access to data due to viruses, malware, denial of service attacks, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, or physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, or networking equipment. we have experienced cyber threats and incidents in the past. although past threats and incidents have not resulted in a material adverse effect, we may incur material losses related to cyber threats or incidents in the future. if we were subject to a cyber incident, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. such adverse effects might include: loss of (or inability to access, e.g. through ransomware) confidential and/or sensitive information stored on these critical information systems or transmitted to or from those systems; the disruption of the proper function of our products, services and/or operations; the failure of our or our customers' manufacturing processes; errors in the output of our work or our customers' work; the loss or public exposure of the personal information of our employees, customers or other parties; the public release of customer orders, financial and business plans, and operational results; exposure to claims from third parties who are adversely impacted by such incidents; misappropriation or theft of our or a customer, supplier or other party's assets or resources, and costs associated therewith; diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering; or our failure to meet, or violation of, regulatory or other legal obligations, such as the timely publication or filing of financial statements, tax information and other required communications. continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 22 table of contents while we have implemented iso 27001 compliant security procedures and virus protection software, intrusion prevention systems, identity and access control, and emergency recovery processes, and we carefully select our third-party providers of information systems, to mitigate risks to the information systems that we rely on, those mitigation and protection systems cannot be guaranteed to be fail-safe and we may still suffer cyber-related incidents. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities we are subject to income, transaction, and other taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. the amount of taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or by changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities. these factors could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of domestic and international governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous chemicals. failure to comply with present or future environmental regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, require us to undertake remediation activities, suspend production, and/or cease operations, or cause our customers to not accept our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, acquire significant additional equipment, incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations, or take other actions. any failure to comply with regulations governing the use, handling, sale, transport, or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and ability to operate our business. if we choose to acquire or dispose of businesses, product lines, and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, enhance our technological capabilities, or accomplish other strategic objectives. as a result, we may seek to make acquisitions of complementary companies, products, or technologies, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. for regulatory or other reasons, we may not be successful in our attempts to acquire or dispose of businesses, products, or technologies, resulting in significant financial costs, reduced or lost opportunities, and diversion of management's attention. managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies, or reducing personnel entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, adverse customer reaction to our decision to cease support for a product, and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel, or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. in addition, any acquisition could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or the price of our common stock. continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 23 table of contents the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital or make acquisitions or may subject our business to additional costs the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control or influence. these factors include but are not limited to the following: general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; economic or political events, trends, and unexpected developments occurring nationally, globally, or in any of our key sales regions; variations in our quarterly operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity; variations in our revenues, earnings, or other business and financial metrics from forecasts by us or securities analysts or from those experienced by other companies in our industry; announcements of restructurings, reductions in force, departure of key employees, and/or consolidations of operations; government regulations; developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; technological innovations and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; commercial success or failure of our new and existing products; disruptions of relationships with key customers or suppliers; or dilutive impacts of our convertible notes. in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors. these and other factors have adversely affected and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management's attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our common stock. intellectual property, indemnity, and other claims against us can be costly and we could lose significant rights that are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, misappropriation, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. from time to time, other persons send us notices alleging that our products infringe or misappropriate their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues. we also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships. in addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and members of our board of directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to us. from time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters. we have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third-party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially and adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties. moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles. we may fail to protect our critical proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other forms of protection. protecting our key proprietary technology helps us achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 24 table of contents systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. as part of our strategy to protect our technology, we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes, and techniques confidential and/or as trade secrets. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the u.s. or foreign governments issue to us; these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications; or we may lose trade secret protection over valuable information due to our or third parties' intentional or unintentional actions or omissions or even those of our own employees. additionally, intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and even when patents are issued, or trade secret processes are followed, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business might not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously or effectively as the united states or may favor local entities in their intellectual property enforcement. the rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents, pending patent applications, or trade secrets may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. moreover, because we selectively file for patent protection in different jurisdictions, we may not have adequate protection in all jurisdictions based on such filing decisions. any of these circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our business. we are exposed to various risks from our regulatory environment we are subject to various risks related to (1) new, different, inconsistent, or even conflicting laws, rules, and regulations that may be enacted by legislative or executive bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries that we operate; (2) disagreements or disputes related to international trade; and (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules, and regulations. as a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to export controls, financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, anti-corruption, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, conflict minerals or other social responsibility legislation, immigration or travel regulations, and antitrust regulations, among others. each of these laws, rules, and regulations imposes costs on our business, including financial costs and potential diversion of our management's attention associated with compliance, and may present risks to our business, including potential fines, restrictions on our actions, and reputational damage if we are unable to fully comply. to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards. changes in or ambiguous interpretations of laws, regulations, and standards may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. efforts to comply with new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased selling, general, and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. if we are found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance with the laws and regulations, our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations could be adversely affected. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase our shares at all or in any particular amounts our board of directors has declared quarterly dividends since april 2014. our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends and share repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends or the repurchasing of shares by us. future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal, state, and international tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model. our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. a reduction or suspension in our dividend payments or share repurchases could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investments we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. as of june 30, 2019 , our mutual funds are classified as trading securities. investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. any material differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities is recognized as other income (expense) in our consolidated statement of operations. all of our other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. interest rate risk fixed-income securities our investments in various interest-earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. at any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed-income investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. we target a capital preservation-focused investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our capital by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and concentration risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed-income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 30, 2019 ,were as follows: valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x basis points june 30, 2019 (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) % 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) u.s. treasury and agencies 467,445 466,940 466,427 465,914 465,403 464,891 464,379 government-sponsored enterprises 16,108 16,062 16,015 15,969 15,921 15,875 15,828 foreign government bonds 24,592 24,542 24,493 24,443 24,394 24,344 24,294 corporate notes and bonds 1,478,541 1,475,154 1,471,766 1,468,378 1,464,989 1,461,600 1,458,211 mortgage backed securities - residential 6,240 6,208 6,176 6,144 6,112 6,080 6,048 mortgage backed securities - commercial 30,157 30,014 29,871 29,727 29,585 29,442 29,299 total $ 2,023,083 $ 2,018,920 $ 2,014,748 $ 2,010,575 $ 2,006,404 $ 2,002,232 $ 1,998,059 we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 46 table of contents long-term debt as of june 30, 2019 , we had $4.5 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate long-term debt outstanding, with a fair value of $5.7 billion . the fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk, and other factors due to the convertible feature, as applicable. generally, the fair value of notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. additionally, the fair value of the 2041 notes will increase as our common stock price increases and decrease as our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of our notes but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. we do not carry the notes at fair value, but present the fair value of the principal amount of our notes for disclosure purposes. equity price risk publicly traded securities the values of our investments in publicly traded securities, including mutual funds related to our obligations under our deferred compensation plans, are subject to market price risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded securities that would result from potential decreases and increases in the price of each security in the portfolio. potential fluctuations in the price of each security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, or 25% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. the hypothetical fair values as of june 30, 2019 , were as follows: valuation of securities given an x% decrease in stock price fair value as of valuation of securities given an x% increase in stock price june 30, 2019 (25)% (15)% (10)% % 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) mutual funds $ 58,306 $ 66,080 $ 69,967 77,741 $ 85,515 $ 89,402 $ 97,176 foreign currency exchange ( fx ) risk we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated and korean won-denominated expenses. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables. in addition, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily on revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won. to protect against adverse movements in value of anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won, we enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts that generally expire within 12 months and no later than 24 months. the option contracts include collars, an option strategy that is comprised of a combination of a purchased put option and a written call option with the same expiration dates and japanese yen notional amounts but with different strike prices. these foreign currency hedge contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value, with the effective portion of the contracts' gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue and/or expense is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of certain non-u.s.-dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income (expense), net, and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities also recorded in other income (expense), net, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the hedged items. the notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward and option contracts that are continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 47 table of contents designated as cash flow hedges, as of june 30, 2019 , are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus or minus 10 percent and plus or minus 15 percent. notional amount unrealized fx gain/(loss) valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each june 30, 2019 = +/- (10%) = +/- (15%) (in millions) forward contracts sell japanese yen $ 115.8 $ (1.6 ) $ 11.6 $ 17.4 buy euro 43.8 (0.7 ) 4.8 7.5 buy korean won 14.6 (0.3 ) 1.4 2.2 $ (2.6 ) $ 17.8 $ 27.1 the notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges, as of june 30, 2019 , are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus or minus 10 percent and plus or minus 15 percent. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net, by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. notional amount unrealized fx gain/(loss) valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each june 30, 2019 = +/- (10%) = +/- (15%) (in millions) forward contracts, balance sheet hedge buy british pound $ 45.8 $ $ 2.8 $ 4.3 buy japanese yen 39.3 0.6 4.0 6.0 buy taiwan dollar 29.0 2.9 4.3 buy swiss francs 26.7 2.6 4.0 buy euro 24.0 7.3 8.2 buy chinese renminbi 14.4 1.4 2.2 buy indian rupee 9.5 1.0 1.4 buy singapore dollar 8.9 0.9 1.3 buy korean won 7.8 0.8 1.2 $ 0.6 $ 23.7 $ 32.9 continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 48 table of contents interest rate contracts interest rate risk is present with both fixed- and floating-rate debt. interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges are used to mitigate our exposure to changes in the fair value of fixed-rate debt resulting from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the fair value of our fixed-rate debt, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the swap agreements. interest rate swaps may also be used to adjust interest rate exposures when appropriate, based on market conditions, and for qualifying hedges, the interest differential of swaps is included in interest expense. during the fiscal year ended june 26, 2016, we entered into a series of interest rate contracts with a total notional value of $400 million where we received fixed rates and paid variable rates based on certain benchmark interest rates. such interest rate swap arrangements were designated as fair value hedges of the fair value of the underlying debt instrument. the following table shows the change in fair value of these fair value hedges, assuming a hypothetical benchmark interest rate movement of plus or minus 10 bps and plus or minus 15 bps. fair value as of valuation of fair value hedge given an interest rate increase (+)/decrease (-) of x basis points june 30, 2019 = +/- 10 bps = +/- 15 bps (in millions) interest rate contracts $ 3.6 $ 2.1 $ 3.2 interest rate risk is also present on anticipated issuances of debt. we manage our interest rate exposure on anticipated issuances of debt through forward-starting interest rate swap agreements. forward-starting interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges are used to mitigate our exposure to changes in future interest payments that results from fluctuations in benchmark interest rates prior to the issuance of the debt. accordingly, benchmark interest rate fluctuations impact the interest cash flows of the company's anticipated debt issuances, which are offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the forward-starting interest rate swap agreements. during the fiscal year ended june 26, 2016, we entered into and settled a series of forward-starting interest rate swap agreements associated with our june 2016 debt offering. such forward-starting interest rate swap agreements were designated as hedges of the cash flows associated with benchmark interest rates underlying future interest payments on the june 2016 debt issuances. continues on next page lam research corporation 2019 10-k 49 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k ( 2020 form 10-k ), the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. many of the following risk factors are, and will be, exacerbated by the covid-19 pandemic and any worsening of the global business and economic environment as a result. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended by, nor should be attached to, the order in which the risk factors appear. the recent covid-19 outbreak has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our business, operations, and financial results the covid-19 outbreak and efforts by national, state and local governments worldwide to control its spread have resulted in widespread measures aimed at containing the disease such as quarantines, travel bans, shutdowns, and shelter in place or stay at home orders, which collectively have significantly restricted the movement of people and goods and the ability of businesses to operate. these restrictions and measures, incidents of confirmed or suspected infections within our workforce or those of our suppliers or other business partners, and our efforts to act in the best interests of our employees, customers, and suppliers, have affected and are affecting our business and operations by, among other things, causing facility closures, production delays and capacity limitations; disrupting production by our supply chain; disrupting the transport of goods from our supply chain to us and from us to our customers; requiring modifications to our business processes; requiring the implementation of business continuity plans; requiring the development and qualification of alternative sources of supply; requiring the implementation of social distancing measures that require changes to existing manufacturing processes; disrupting business travel; disrupting our ability to staff our on-site manufacturing and research and development facilities; delaying capital expansion projects; and necessitating teleworking by a large proportion of our workforce. these impacts have caused and are expected to continue to cause delays in product shipments and product development, increases in costs, and decreases in revenue, profitability and cash from operations, which have caused and are expected to cause an adverse effect on our results of operations that may be material. the potential duration and impact of the outbreak on the global economy and on our business are difficult to predict and cannot be estimated with any degree of certainty, but the outbreak has resulted in significant disruption of global financial markets, increases in levels of unemployment, and economic uncertainty, which has adversely impacted our business and may continue to do so, and may lead to significant negative impacts on customer spending, demand for our products, the ability of our customers to pay, our financial condition and the financial condition of our suppliers, and our access to external sources of financing to fund our operations and capital expenditures. continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 14 table of contents the semiconductor capital equipment industry is subject to variability and periods of rapid growth or decline; we therefore face risks related to our strategic resource allocation decisions the semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand. the industry environment has moved toward being more characterized by variability across segments and customers, accentuated by consolidation within the industry. variability in our customers' business plans may lead to changes in demand for our equipment and services, which could negatively impact our results. the variability in our customers' investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors, including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers' ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices. the changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, and procedures for training, assimilating, and managing our workforce, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure and facilities, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. if we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of increasing or declining demand, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted. for example, the recent covid-19 outbreak has impacted and could further impact our ability to meet the demand for our products due to production, sourcing, logistics and other challenges resulting from quarantines, shelter in place or stay at home orders, facility closures, workforce challenges, and travel and logistics restrictions in connection with the outbreak. we continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment. if we do not adequately adapt to the changing business environment, we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during a period of growth, or we may expand our capacity too rapidly and/or beyond what is appropriate for the actual demand environment, resulting in excess fixed costs. especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes. our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. future declines in the semiconductor industry, and the overall world economic conditions on which it is significantly dependent, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. with the consolidation of customers within the industry, the semiconductor capital equipment market may experience rapid changes in demand driven both by changes in the market generally and the plans and requirements of particular customers. the economic, political, and business conditions occurring nationally, globally, or in any of our key sales regions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. additionally, in times of economic uncertainty, our customers' budgets for our products, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. this would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. as a result, changing economic, political or business conditions can cause material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition, including but not limited to: a decline in demand for our products or services; an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers' inability to pay us; an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; a decline in the value of our investments; continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 15 table of contents exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply. fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers may materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues, operating results, and earnings. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in r&amp;d and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our profitability and other financial results. our revenues and operating results are variable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a small number of transactions can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter or year. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries in general and specifically the semiconductor equipment industry; the size and timing of orders from customers; consolidation of the customer base, which may result in the investment decisions of one customer or market having a significant effect on demand for our products or services; procurement shortages; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; manufacturing difficulties; customer cancellations or delays in shipments, installations, customer payments, and/or customer acceptances; the extent that customers continue to purchase and use our products and services in their business; our customers' reuse of existing and installed products, to the extent that such reuse decreases their need to purchase new products or services; changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new, enhanced, and competitive products in a timely manner; our competitors' introduction of new products; legal or technical challenges to our products and technologies; transportation, communication, demand, information technology, or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control, such as strikes, acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, widespread outbreak of illness, and natural or man-made disasters; legal, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes (including but not limited to change in import/export regulations and tariffs) or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing requirements; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. for example, the recent covid-19 outbreak has impacted and could further impact our ability to meet the demand for our products due to production, sourcing, logistics and other challenges resulting from quarantines, shelter in place or stay at home orders, facility closures, workforce challenges, and travel and logistics restrictions in connection with the outbreak. continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 16 table of contents the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital or make acquisitions or may subject our business to additional costs the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control or influence. these factors include but are not limited to the following: general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; economic or political events, trends, and unexpected developments occurring nationally, globally, or in any of our key sales regions; variations in our quarterly operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity; variations in our revenues, earnings, or other business and financial metrics from forecasts by us or securities analysts or from those experienced by other companies in our industry; announcements of restructurings, reductions in force, departure of key employees, and/or consolidations of operations; government regulations; developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; technological innovations and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; commercial success or failure of our new and existing products; or disruptions of relationships with key customers or suppliers. in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors. these and other factors have adversely affected and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management's attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our common stock. certain critical information systems, that we rely on for the operation of our business and products that we sell, are susceptible to cybersecurity and other threats or incidents we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include but are not limited to, telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, (some of which may be integrated into the products that we sell or be required in order to provide the services that we offer), network communications, and email. these information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsourced providers, or third parties such as vendors, contractors, customers and cloud providers. in addition, we make use of software-as-a-service (saas) products for certain important business functions that are provided by third parties and hosted on their own networks and servers, or third-party networks and servers, all of which rely on networks, email and/or the internet for their function. all of these information systems are subject to disruption, breach or failure from various sources, including those using techniques that change frequently or may be disguised or difficult to detect, or designed to remain dormant until a triggering event, or that may continue undetected for an extended period of time. those sources may include mistakes or unauthorized actions by our employees or contractors, phishing schemes and other third-party attacks, and degradation or loss of service or access to data due to viruses, malware, denial of service attacks, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, or physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, or networking equipment. we have experienced cybersecurity and other threats and incidents in the past. although past threats and incidents have not resulted in a material adverse effect, we may incur material losses related to cybersecurity and other threats or incidents in the future. if we were subject to a cybersecurity and other incident, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. such adverse effects might include: loss of (or inability to access, e.g. through ransomware) confidential and/or sensitive information stored on these critical information systems or transmitted to or from those systems; the disruption of the proper function of our products, services and/or operations; the failure of our or our customers' manufacturing processes; errors in the output of our work or our customers' work; continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 17 table of contents the loss or public exposure of the personal information of our employees, customers or other parties; the public release of customer orders, financial and business plans, and operational results; exposure to claims from third parties who are adversely impacted by such incidents; misappropriation or theft of our or a customer's, supplier's or other party's assets or resources, including technology data, intellectual property or other sensitive information and costs associated therewith; reputational damage; diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering; or our failure to meet, or violation of, regulatory or other legal obligations, such as the timely publication or filing of financial statements, tax information and other required communications. while we have implemented iso 27001 compliant security procedures and virus protection software, intrusion prevention systems, identity and access control, and emergency recovery processes, and we carefully select our third-party providers of information systems, to mitigate risks to the information systems that we rely on, and to our technology, data, intellectual property and other sensitive information, those security procedures and mitigation and protection systems cannot be guaranteed to be fail-safe and we may still suffer cybersecurity and other incidents. it has been difficult and may continue to be difficult to hire and retain employees with substantial cybersecurity acumen. in addition, our policies and procedures may not be effective in enabling us to identify risks, threats and incidents in a timely manner, or at all, or to respond expediently, appropriately and effectively when incidents occur and repair any damage caused by such incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments, cash flows, collections, and profitability. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that is difficult to predict. in addition, large customers may be able to negotiate requirements that result in decreased pricing, increased costs, and/or lower margins for us; compliance with specific environmental, social, and corporate governance standards; and limitations on our ability to share technology with others. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. we depend on creating new products and processes and enhancing existing products and processes for our success; consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products or existing products have reliability, quality, design, or safety problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture products successfully, or products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. for more than 25 years, the primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips. that driver could be approaching its technological limit, leading semiconductor manufacturers to investigate more complex changes in multiple technologies in an effort to continue technology development. in addition, the emergence of big data and new tools such as machine learning and artificial intelligence that capitalize on the availability of large data sets is leading semiconductor manufacturers and equipment manufacturers to pursue new products and approaches that exploit those tools to advance technology development. in the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements. our failure to develop and offer the correct technology solutions in a timely manner with productive and cost-effective products could adversely affect our business in a material way. our failure to commercialize new products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 18 table of contents in order to develop new products and processes and enhance existing products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r&amp;d, to investigate the acquisition of new products and technologies, to invest in or acquire such business or technologies, and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers, or other members of the industry. our investments and acquisitions may not be as successful as we may expect, particularly in the event that we invest in or acquire product lines and technologies that are new to us. we may find that acquisitions are not available to us, for regulatory or other reasons, and that we must therefore limit ourselves to collaboration and joint venture development activities, which do not have the same benefits as acquisitions. pursuing development through collaboration and/or joint development activities rather than through an acquisition poses substantial challenges for management, including those related to aligning business objectives; sharing confidential information, intellectual property and data; sharing value with third parties; and realizing synergies that might have been available in an acquisition but are not available through a joint development project. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products and certain jointly developed technologies may be subject to restrictions on our ability to share that technology with other customers, which could limit our market for products incorporating those technologies. future technologies, processes, or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, obsolete inventory, or both. moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next-generation devices. this shift may result in a reduction in the size of our addressable markets or could increase the relative size of markets in which we either do not compete or have relatively low market share. we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products. our products are priced up to approximately $15 million per system. as a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significantly adverse impact on our revenues for a given quarter, and, in the longer term, the continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products, a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products, export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customers or customers within certain markets, an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the markets in which we participate, increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines, increased pressure from regional competitors, technological changes that we are unable to address with our products, or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. in addition, the fact that we offer limited product lines creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products and/or product capabilities, including new products that take advantage of big data or other new technologies such as machine learning and artificial intelligence. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. our business is affected by our customers' use of our products in certain steps in their wafer fabrication processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductors requires fewer steps using our products, this could have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. strategic alliances and customer consolidation may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor manufacturing companies are entering into strategic alliances or consolidating with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies and/or achieve economies of scale. the outcomes of such an alliance can be the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function and/or the standardization of a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment, while the outcomes of consolidation can lead to an overall reduction in the market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment as customers' operations achieve economies of scale and/or increased purchasing continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 19 table of contents power based on their higher volumes. in certain instances, this could work to our disadvantage if a competitor's tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such functions or processes. additional outcomes of such consolidation may include our customers re-evaluating their future supplier relationships to consider our competitors' products and/or gaining additional influence over the pricing of products and the control of intellectual property or data. similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor's equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. even if they select our equipment, the institutions and the customers that follow their lead could impose conditions on acceptance of that equipment, such as adherence to standards and requirements or limitations on how we license our proprietary rights, that increase our costs or require us to take on greater risk. these actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results. we depend on a limited number of key suppliers and outsource providers, and we run the risk that they might not perform as we expect outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our product development, manufacturing operations, field installation and support, and many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. these providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us, or be unable to meet our requirements or expectation due to their independent business decisions or force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect. although we attempt to select reputable providers and suppliers and we attempt to secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers or suppliers could fail to perform as we expect, or fail to secure or protect intellectual property rights, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances. there is therefore a risk that a prolonged inability to obtain certain components or secure key services could impair our ability to manage operations, ship products, and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships. for example, the recent covid-19 outbreak has impacted and could further impact our manufacturing operations, supply chain, and customer support due to production, sourcing, logistics and other challenges resulting from quarantines, stay at home orders, facility closures, workforce challenges, and travel and logistics restrictions in connection with the outbreak. we face risks related to the disruption of our primary manufacturing facilities while we maintain business continuity plans, our manufacturing facilities are concentrated in a limited number of locations. these locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, such as natural or man-made disasters, widespread outbreaks of illness, terrorist activities, political or governmental unrest or instability, disruptions of our information technology resources, utility interruptions, or other events beyond our control. such disruptions may cause delays in shipping our products, which could result in the loss of business or customer trust, adversely affecting our business and operating results. for example, the recent covid-19 outbreak has impacted and could further impact our manufacturing operations, supply chain, and customer support due to production, sourcing, logistics and other challenges resulting from quarantines, stay at home orders, facility closures, workforce challenges, and travel and logistics restrictions in connection with the outbreak. our future success depends heavily on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales, as reflected in part ii item 7. results of operation of this 2020 form 10-k, accounted for approximately 92% , 92% , and 93% of total revenue in fiscal years 2020 , 2019 , and 2018 , respectively. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue in future years. continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 20 table of contents we are subject to various challenges related to international sales and the management of global operations including, but not limited to: domestic and international trade regulations, policies, practices, relations, disputes and issues; domestic and international tariffs, export controls and other barriers; developing customers and/or suppliers, who may have limited access to capital resources; global or national economic and political conditions; changes in currency controls; differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts, and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers; changes in and compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including u.s. and international trade restrictions and sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, environmental, tax, and labor laws; fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business. for example, the recent covid-19 outbreak has impacted and could further impact our manufacturing operations, supply chain, and customer support due to production, sourcing, logistics and other challenges resulting from quarantines, stay at home orders, facility closures, workforce challenges, and travel and logistics restrictions in connection with the outbreak. there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among china, japan, korea, taiwan, and the united states, that political, diplomatic and national security influences might lead to trade disputes, impacts and/or disruptions, in particular those affecting the semiconductor industry. this would adversely affect our business with china, japan, korea, and/or taiwan and perhaps the entire asia pacific region or global economy. a significant trade dispute, impact and/or disruption in any area where we do business could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. tariffs, export controls, additional taxes, trade barriers, sanctions, or the termination or modification of trade agreements, trade zones, and other duty mitigation initiatives, may increase our manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial conditions. in addition, there are risks that foreign governments may, among other things, insist on the use of local suppliers; compel companies to partner with local companies to design and supply equipment on a local basis, requiring the transfer of intellectual property rights and/or local manufacturing; utilize their influence over their judicial systems to respond to intellectual property disputes or issues; and provide special incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local competitors, even if their products are inferior to ours; all of which could adversely impact our revenues and margins. certain of our international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. or foreign governments. our inability to obtain such licenses, or an expansion of the number or kinds of sales for which export licenses are required, could potentially limit the market for our products and adversely impact our revenues. we are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won. currently, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses dominated in euro and korean won. in addition, we enter into foreign currency hedge contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third-party accounts receivables, accounts payables, and intercompany receivables and payables. we believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. we expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over or under hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging these continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 21 table of contents foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets, and liabilities, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed), and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures. therefore, we are subject to potential unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in these currencies. the magnitude of our overseas business also affects where our cash is generated. certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends, or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with onshore cash balances. since the majority of our cash is generated outside of the united states, this may impact certain business decisions and outcomes. our sales to customers in china, a region of growing significance to us, could be materially and adversely affected by export license requirements and other regulatory changes, or other governmental actions in the course of the trade relationship between the u.s. and china. china represents a large and fast-developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore is important to our business. revenue in china represented approximately 31%, 22%, and 16% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. the u.s. and china have historically had a complex relationship that has included actions that have impacted trade between the two countries. in recent months, these actions have included an expansion of export license requirements imposed by the u.s. government, which could potentially limit the market for our products and adversely impact our revenues. specifically, on june 29, 2020, a new rule enacted by the u.s. department of commerce took effect that expands export license requirements for u.s. companies to sell certain items to companies in china that are designated as military end-users or have operations that could support military end uses. this rule may require us to apply for additional export licenses for our products to be sold to certain customers in china, and there is no assurance that we will be issued licenses that we may apply for on a timely basis or at all. although we do not currently anticipate a material adverse impact from this rule on our revenues in china, the impact of this rule is uncertain and could change. in addition, our international sales may also be impacted by export licensing requirements applicable to our customers and their products. on august 17, 2020, the u.s. department of commerce expanded a rule originally published on may 19, 2020 in a manner that could cause foreign-made wafers, chipsets, and certain related items produced with many of our products to be subject to u.s. licensing requirements if huawei technologies co. ltd ( huawei ) or its affiliates are parties to a transaction involving the items. this new rule does not impose additional export license requirements on our products, but it has the potential to adversely impact the demand for wafer fabrication equipment with u.s.-origin technology (potentially including many of our products) by customers that may intend to use such equipment to produce wafers, chipsets or certain related items when huawei or its affiliates are expected to be parties to a transaction involving the items. the implementation, interpretation and impact on our business of these rules is uncertain and evolving, and these rules, other regulatory changes, and other actions taken by the governments of either the u.s. or china, or both, that have occurred and may occur in the future could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor's semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor's equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier's processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially for customers that are more focused on tool reuse. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer for a product line application if that customer initially selects a competitor's equipment for the same product line application. continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 22 table of contents we face a challenging and complex competitive environment we face significant competition from multiple competitors, and with increased consolidation efforts in our industry, as well as the emergence and strengthening of new, regional competitors, we may face increasing competitive pressures. other companies continue to develop systems and/or acquire businesses and products that are competitive to ours and may introduce new products and product capabilities that may affect our ability to sell and support our existing products. we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we must devote significant financial resources to offer products that meet our customers' needs, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r&amp;d. technological changes and developing technologies, have required, and are expected to continue to require, new and costly investments. certain of our competitors, including those that are created and financially backed by foreign governments, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to offer customers a more comprehensive array of products and/or product capabilities and to therefore achieve additional relative success in the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. we also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours. in addition, we face competition from companies that exist in a more favorable legal or regulatory environment than we do, allowing the freedom of action in ways that we may be unable to match. in many cases speed to solution is necessary for customer satisfaction and our competitors may be better positioned to achieve these objectives. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. in addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, competition may intensify, and we may be unable to continue to compete successfully in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees is critical to our success our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees with the appropriate skills, experiences and competencies. this is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, fluctuations in industry or business economic conditions, as well as increasing geographic expansion, and these factors in combination may result in cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs, global economic or political and industry conditions, our organizational structure, global competition for talent and the availability of qualified employees, the availability of career development opportunities, the ability to obtain necessary authorizations for workers to provide services outside their home countries, and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. we periodically evaluate our overall compensation and benefit programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain, and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities we are subject to income, transaction, and other taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. the amount of taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation allowance continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 23 table of contents of deferred tax assets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or by changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities. these factors could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. we are exposed to various risks from our regulatory environment we are subject to various risks related to (1) new, different, inconsistent, or even conflicting laws, rules, and regulations that may be enacted by legislative or executive bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries that we operate; (2) disagreements or disputes related to international trade; and (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules, and regulations. as a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to export controls, financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, anti-corruption, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, conflict minerals or other social responsibility legislation, immigration or travel regulations, and antitrust regulations, among others. each of these laws, rules, and regulations imposes costs on our business, including financial costs and potential diversion of our management's attention associated with compliance, and may present risks to our business, including potential fines, restrictions on our actions, and reputational damage if we are unable to fully comply. to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards. changes in or ambiguous interpretations of laws, regulations, and standards may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. efforts to comply with new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased selling, general, and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. if we are found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance with the laws and regulations, our business, financial condition, and/or results of operations could be adversely affected. a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of domestic and international governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous chemicals. failure to comply with present or future environmental regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, require us to undertake remediation activities, suspend production, and/or cease operations, or cause our customers to not accept our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, acquire significant additional equipment, incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations, or take other actions. any failure to comply with regulations governing the use, handling, sale, transport, or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, and ability to operate our business. we may fail to protect our critical proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights, trade secrets and other forms of protection. protecting our key proprietary technology helps us achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. as part of our strategy to protect our technology, we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes, and techniques confidential and/or as trade secrets. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the u.s. or foreign governments issue to us; these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications; or we may lose trade secret protection over valuable information due to our or third parties' intentional or unintentional actions or omissions or even those of our own employees. additionally, intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and even when patents are issued, or trade secret processes are followed, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business might not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously or effectively as the united states or may favor local entities in their intellectual property enforcement. the rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents, pending patent applications, or trade secrets may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. moreover, because we selectively file for patent continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 24 table of contents protection in different jurisdictions, we may not have adequate protection in all jurisdictions based on such filing decisions. any of these circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our business. intellectual property, indemnity, and other claims against us can be costly and we could lose significant rights that are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, misappropriation, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. from time to time, other persons send us notices alleging that our products infringe or misappropriate their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues. we also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships. in addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and members of our board of directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to us. from time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters. we have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third-party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially and adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties. moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles. if we choose to acquire or dispose of businesses, product lines, and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, enhance our technological capabilities, or accomplish other strategic objectives. as a result, we may seek to make acquisitions of complementary companies, products, or technologies, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. for regulatory or other reasons, we may not be successful in our attempts to acquire or dispose of businesses, products, or technologies, resulting in significant financial costs, reduced or lost opportunities, and diversion of management's attention. managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies, or reducing personnel entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management's attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, adverse customer reaction to our decision to cease support for a product, and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel, or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. in addition, any acquisition could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or the price of our common stock. continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 25 table of contents we may incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and intangible assets identified in business combinations and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business units, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. if, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. we operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill in one or more of our business units, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations. our leverage and debt service obligations may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and earnings per share we have $5.8 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes and convertible notes outstanding. additionally, we have funding available to us under our $1.25 billion commercial paper program and our $1.25 billion revolving credit facility, which serves as a backstop to our commercial paper program. our revolving credit facility also includes an option to increase the amount up to an additional $600.0 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.85 billion. we may, in the future, decide to enter into additional debt arrangements. in addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt. we could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments. our indebtedness could have adverse consequences, including: risk associated with the alternative reference rate reform (e.g. libor transition); risk associated with any inability to satisfy our obligations; a portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions, or general corporate or other purposes; and impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows, to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. as a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. if we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. our credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business we may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, or obtain additional financing because our debt agreements contain, and any of our other future similar agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees; continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 26 table of contents create liens; enter into transactions with our affiliates; sell certain assets; and merge or consolidate with any person. our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. in addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the senior notes, the convertible notes, or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. if any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase our shares at all or in any particular amounts our board of directors has declared quarterly dividends since april 2014. our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends and share repurchases are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends or the repurchasing of shares by us. future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal, state, and international tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model. our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. a reduction or suspension in our dividend payments or share repurchases could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investments we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. as of june 28, 2020 , our mutual funds are classified as trading securities. investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. any material differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities is recognized as other income (expense) in our consolidated statement of operations. all of our other investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. interest rate risk fixed-income securities our investments in various interest-earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. at any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed-income investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. we target a capital preservation-focused investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our capital by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and concentration risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed-income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps with a minimum interest rate of zero bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 28, 2020 ,were as follows: valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x basis points june 28, 2020 (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) % 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) u.s. treasury and agencies $ 552,656 $ 552,656 $ 552,656 $ 552,452 $ 551,801 $ 551,149 $ 550,498 government-sponsored enterprises 31,497 31,497 31,497 31,454 31,374 31,295 31,215 foreign government bonds 10,735 10,735 10,734 10,716 10,694 10,673 10,651 corporate notes and bonds 1,414,694 1,414,583 1,413,851 1,410,657 1,407,049 1,403,439 1,399,824 mortgage backed securities - residential 3,323 3,286 3,249 3,213 3,176 3,139 3,102 mortgage backed securities - commercial 23,890 23,889 23,868 23,804 23,740 23,676 23,613 total $ 2,036,795 $ 2,036,646 $ 2,035,855 $ 2,032,296 $ 2,027,834 $ 2,023,371 $ 2,018,903 we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 46 table of contents long-term debt as of june 28, 2020 , we had $5.8 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate long-term debt outstanding, with a fair value of $7.0 billion . the fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk, and other factors due to the convertible feature, as applicable. generally, the fair value of notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. additionally, the fair value of the 2041 notes will increase as our common stock price increases and decrease as our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of our notes but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. we do not carry the notes at fair value but present the fair value of the principal amount of our notes for disclosure purposes. equity price risk publicly traded securities the values of our investments in publicly traded securities, including mutual funds related to our obligations under our deferred compensation plans, are subject to market price risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded securities that would result from potential decreases and increases in the price of each security in the portfolio. potential fluctuations in the price of each security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, or 25% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. the hypothetical fair values as of june 28, 2020 , were as follows: valuation of securities given an x% decrease in stock price fair value as of valuation of securities given an x% increase in stock price june 28, 2020 (25)% (15)% (10)% % 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) mutual funds $ 54,320 $ 61,563 $ 65,184 $ 72,427 $ 79,670 $ 83,291 $ 90,534 foreign currency exchange ( fx ) risk we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated and korean won-denominated expenses. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables. in addition, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily on revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won. to protect against adverse movements in value of anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won, we enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts that generally expire within 12 months and no later than 24 months. the option contracts include collars, an option strategy that is comprised of a combination of a purchased put option and a written call option with the same expiration dates and japanese yen notional amounts but with different strike prices. these foreign currency hedge contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value, with the effective portion of the contracts' gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue and/or expense is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of certain non-u.s.-dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily cash, third-party accounts receivable, accounts payable, and intercompany receivables and payables. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income (expense), net, and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities also recorded in other income (expense), net, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the hedged items. the notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward and option contracts that are continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 47 table of contents designated as cash flow hedges, as of june 28, 2020 , are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus or minus 10 percent and plus or minus 15 percent. notional amount unrealized fx gain/(loss) valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each june 28, 2020 = +/- (10%) = +/- (15%) (in millions) forward contracts sell japanese yen $ 299.5 $ 0.1 $ 29.9 $ 44.8 buy euro 54.5 0.8 6.1 9.7 buy korean won 20.5 (0.4 ) 2.0 3.0 $ 0.5 $ 38.0 $ 57.5 the notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges, as of june 28, 2020 , are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus or minus 10 percent and plus or minus 15 percent. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net, by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. notional amount unrealized fx gain/(loss) valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each june 28, 2020 = +/- (10%) = +/- (15%) (in millions) forward contracts, balance sheet hedge sell korean won $ 50.7 $ 0.1 $ 5.1 $ 7.6 buy taiwan dollar 47.6 (0.1 ) 4.7 7.0 buy euro 36.1 10.6 12.0 buy chinese renminbi 35.1 3.5 5.3 buy japanese yen 22.5 2.2 3.4 buy swiss francs 12.7 1.3 1.9 buy british pound 11.2 0.7 1.1 buy singapore dollar 10.1 1.0 1.5 buy indian rupee 7.8 0.8 1.2 buy malaysian ringgit 5.6 0.6 0.8 $ $ 30.5 $ 41.8 continues on next page lam research corporation 2020 10-k 48 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio. we maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio at june 26, 2005 and june 27, 2004: june 27, june 26, 2005 2004 there- fair 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 after total value total (in thousands) cash equivalents fixed rate $ 378,183 $ $ $ $ $ $ 378,183 $ 378,183 $ 57,739 average rate 3.05 % 3.05 % 1.20 % short-term investments fixed rate $ 167,979 $ 81,707 $ 44,250 $ 18,512 $ 13,724 $ 2,674 $ 328,846 $ 327,003 $ 263,009 average rate 3.60 % 4.34 % 4.42 % 4.52 % 4.33 % 5.00 % 3.99 % 2.47 % auction rate preferreds variable rate $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 4,998 average rate 1.29 % restricted cash fixed rate $ 85,038 $ $ $ $ $ $ 85,038 $ 85,038 $ 112,468 average rate 3.00 % 3.00 % 1.00 % total investment securities $ 631,200 $ 81,707 $ 44,250 $ 18,512 $ 13,724 $ 2,674 $ 792,067 $ 790,224 $ 438,214 average rate 3.19 % 4.34 % 4.42 % 4.52 % 4.33 % 5.00 % 3.43 % 1.91 % we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by constantly positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales are denominated in u.s. dollars except for certain of our revenues in japan that are denominated in japanese yen, and certain of our spares and service contracts which are denominated in other currencies. the majority of our expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars except for expenses related to our non u.s. sales and support offices which are denominated in these countries local currency. as a result, we believe that our primary exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuation is naturally hedged (the revenue in local currency partially offsets the exposure to local currency expenses) except for our japanese yen revenue exposure in japan. for this reason, we periodically hedge anticipated cash flow transactions with foreign currency forward contracts. we defer the gains and losses on these contracts and recognize them in income during the same period as the hedged transaction is recognized in income. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of japanese yen-denominated receivable balances. the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated intercompany and trade receivables assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. on june 26, 2005, the notional amount of outstanding japanese yen forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges was $32.6 million. the unrealized loss on the contracts on june 26, 2005, was $0.4 million. a 15% appreciation of the japanese yen would result in an unrealized loss of $5.8 million. depreciation in the exchange rate of the japanese yen of approximately 15% would result in an unrealized gain of $4.2 million. on june 26, 2005, the notional amount of outstanding japanese yen forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges was $66.2 million. a 15% appreciation of the japanese yen would result in an unrealized loss of $11.7 million. depreciation in the exchange rate of the japanese yen of approximately 15% would result in an unrealized gain of $8.6 million. 39 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors in addition to the other information in this 2007 form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the company and its business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear. the results of our independent committee review of our historical stock option practices and resulting restatements may continue to have adverse effects on our financial results. the review by a special committee of our board of directors consisting of two independent board members (the independent committee ) of our historical stock option practices and the resulting restatement of our historical financial statements have required us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal, and other expenses during fiscal year 2008. the resulting restatements have had a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we have restated our historical results of operations to record additional non-cash, stock-based compensation expense of $95.2 million in the aggregate for the periods from fiscal 1997 to fiscal 2006 (excluding the impact of related payroll and income taxes). we expect to amortize less than $0.1 million of compensation expense under financial accounting standards no. 123 (revised), share-based payment ( sfas no. 123r ) in periods subsequent to fiscal year 2006 to properly account for previously issued stock options with deemed incorrect measurement dates. furthermore, to address potential adverse tax consequences certain of our employees have incurred or may incur as a result of the issuance and/or exercise of misdated stock options, we will take remedial actions to make such employees, including our chief executive officer and other affected executive officers, whole for any or all such additional tax liabilities currently estimated to be in the range of approximately $50 million to $55 million. such actions may cause us to incur additional cash or noncash compensation expense. see the explanatory note immediately preceding part i, item 1 and note 3, restatements of consolidated financial statements, to notes to consolidated financial statements of this 2007 form 10-k for further discussion. we may be subject to the risks of lawsuits in connection with our historical stock option practices, the resulting restatements, and the remedial measures we have taken. we, and our current and former directors and officers, may become the subject of government inquiries, shareholder derivative and class action lawsuits and other legal proceedings relating to our historical stock option practices and resulting restatements in the future. we have received a letter from a stockholder demanding that our board of directors take certain actions, including potentially legal action, in connection with our historical stock option practices, and threatening to sue if our board of directors does not comply with the stockholder demands. our board of directors is currently reviewing the letter. we may also be subject to other kinds of lawsuits. should any of these events occur, they could require us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses. this could divert attention and resources from the operation of our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the ultimate outcome of these potential actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price for our securities. litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. the defense of these potential lawsuits could result in significant expenditures. subject to certain limitations, we are obliged to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with any government inquiry or litigation related to our historical stock option practices that may arise. we currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our directors and officers, although there can be no assurance that the insurance would cover all of the expenses that would be associated with any proceedings. judgment and estimates utilized by us in determining stock option grant dates and related adjustments may be subject to change due to subsequent sec guidance or other disclosure requirements. in determining the restatement adjustments in connection with the stock option review, management used all reasonably available relevant information to form conclusions it believes are appropriate as to the most likely option granting actions that occurred, the dates when such actions occurred, and the determination of grant dates for financial accounting purposes based on when the requirements of the accounting standards were met. we considered various alternatives throughout the course of the review and restatement, and we believe the approaches used were the most appropriate, and that the choices of measurement dates used in our review of stock option grant accounting and restatement of our financial statements were reasonable and appropriate in our circumstances. however, the sec may issue additional guidance on disclosure requirements related to the financial impact of past stock option grant measurement date errors that may require us to amend this filing or other filings with the sec to provide additional disclosures pursuant to such additional guidance. any such circumstance could also lead to future delays in filing our subsequent sec reports and delisting of our common stock from the nasdaq global select market. furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 11 table of contents we have not been in compliance with sec reporting requirements and nasdaq listing requirements. if we are unable to attain compliance with, or thereafter remain in compliance with sec reporting requirements and nasdaq listing requirements, there may be a material adverse effect on our business and our stockholders. as a consequence of the independent committee review of our historical stock option practices and resulting restatements of our financial statements, we have not been able to file our periodic reports with the sec on a timely basis and continue to face the possibility of delisting of our stock from the nasdaq global select market. we have now filed this 2007 form 10-k and we believe that this filing, together with the expected filing of the quarterly report on form 10-q as of and for the quarter ended september 23, 2007 (the first quarter 2008 form 10-q ) and the quarterly report on form 10-q as of and for the quarter ended december 23, 2007 (the second quarter 2008 form 10-q ) with the sec will remediate the company non-compliance with marketplace rule 4310(c) (14), subject to the affirmative completion by the nasdaq stock market inc. ( nasdaq ) of its compliance protocols and its notification to the company accordingly. however, if nasdaq disagrees with the company position or if the sec disagrees with the manner in which the financial impact of past stock option grants have been accounted for and reported, or not reported, there could be further delays in filing subsequent sec reports or other actions that might result in delisting of the company common stock from the nasdaq global select market. see the explanatory note immediately preceding part i, item 1 and note 3, restatements of consolidated financial statements, to consolidated financial statements of this 2007 10-k for further discussion. until we have returned to full compliance with sec reporting requirements and nasdaq listing requirements, the possibility of a nasdaq delisting exists. if this happens, the price of our stock and the ability of our stockholders to trade in our stock would be adversely affected. in addition, we would be subject to a number of restrictions regarding the registration of our stock under federal securities laws, and we would not be able to allow our employees to exercise their outstanding options, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. as a result of the delayed filings of our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarters ended september 23, 2007 and december 23, 2007, as well as of this 2007 form 10-k, we will be ineligible to register our securities on form s-3 for sale by us or resale by others until one year from the date the last delinquent filing is made. we may use form s-1 to raise capital or complete acquisitions, but doing so could increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. it may be difficult or more costly to obtain director and officer liability insurance coverage as a result of our stock option restatement. the issues arising from our restatement may make it more difficult to obtain director and officer liability insurance coverage in the future. if we are able to obtain this coverage, it could be significantly more costly than in the past, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and cash flow. if we are unable to secure appropriate director and officer liability insurance coverage on reasonable terms, our directors and officers could face increased risks of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. in that event, we believe we could have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and officers, which could adversely affect our business. our quarterly revenues and operating results are unpredictable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. if revenue levels in a particular quarter do not meet our expectations, our operating results may be adversely affected. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a single transaction can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include, but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries generally and the equipment industry specifically; the extent that customers use our products and services in their business; timing of customer acceptances of equipment; the size and timing of orders from customers; customer cancellations or delays in our shipments, installations, and/or acceptances; changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; our ability in a timely manner to develop, introduce and market new, enhanced, and competitive products; our competitors introduction of new products; 12 table of contents legal or technical challenges to our products and technology; changes in import/export regulations; transportation, communication, demand, information technology or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control such as acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, and natural disasters; legislative, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes or changes in their interpretation; procurement shortages; manufacturing difficulties; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; new or modified accounting regulations and practices; and exchange rate fluctuations. further, because a significant amount of our r d and administrative operations and capacity is located at our fremont, california campus, natural, physical, logistical or other events or disruptions affecting these facilities (including labor disruptions, earthquakes, and power failures) could adversely impact our financial performance. we derive our revenues primarily from a relatively small number of high-priced systems system sales constitute a significant portion of our total revenue. our systems can typically range in price up to approximately $6 million per unit, and our revenues in any given quarter are dependent upon the acceptance of a rather limited number of such systems. as a result, the inability to declare revenue on even a few systems can cause a significant adverse impact on our revenues for that quarter. variations in the amount of time it takes for our customers to accept our systems may cause fluctuation in our operating results we generally recognize revenue for new system sales on the date of customer acceptance or the date the contractual customer acceptance provisions lapse. as a result, the fiscal period in which we are able to recognize new systems revenues is typically subject to the length of time that our customers require to evaluate the performance of our equipment after shipment and installation, which could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. the semiconductor equipment industry is volatile and reduced product demand has a negative impact on shipments our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits and products using integrated circuits. the semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and historically experiences periodic downturns. business conditions historically have changed rapidly and unpredictably. fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers could continue to materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues and operating results. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in research and development and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our financial results. we depend on new products and processes for our success. consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances enabling such processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products have reliability or quality problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture new products successfully or new products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. our failure to complete commercialization of these new products in a timely manner could result in unanticipated costs and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. in order to develop new products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r d and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers or other members of the industry. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products. moreover, future technologies, processes or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, or obsolete inventory, or both. 13 table of contents we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products, and we expect these products to continue to account for a large percentage of our revenues in the near term. continued market acceptance of these products is, therefore, critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products; a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products; export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions which limit our ability to sell those products to key customer or market segments; an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the market in which we participate; increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines; technological change that we are unable to address with our products; or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. in addition, the fact that we offer a more limited product line creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products as well. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. since we are primarily a provider of etch equipment, our business is affected by our customers use of etching steps in their processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductor chips requires fewer etching steps, this might have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, new orders and profitability. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to revenue swings that are difficult to predict. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers, so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. strategic alliances may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor companies are entering into strategic alliances with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies. often, one of the outcomes of such an alliance is the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function or a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment. while this could work to our advantage if lam research equipment becomes the basis for the function or process, it could work to our disadvantage if a competitor tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such function or process. in the latter case, even if lam research equipment was previously used by a customer, that equipment may be displaced in current and future applications by the tools standardized by the alliance. similarly, our customers may team with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. these actions could adversely impact our market share and subsequent business. we are dependent upon a limited number of key suppliers we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. we have established long-term contracts with many of these suppliers. these long-term contracts can take a variety of forms. we may renew these contracts periodically. in some cases, these suppliers sold us products during at least the last four years, and we expect that we will continue to renew these contracts in the future or that we will otherwise replace them with competent alternative suppliers. however, several of our suppliers are relatively new providers to us so that our experience with them and their performance is limited. where practical, our intent is to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single supplier will adversely affect our business. nevertheless, a prolonged inability to obtain certain components could impair our ability to ship products, lower our revenues and thus adversely affect our operating results and result in damage to our customer relationships. 14 table of contents our outsource providers may fail to perform as we expect outsource providers have played and will play key roles in our manufacturing operations and in many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. although we aim at selecting reputable providers and secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition, the expansive role of outsource providers has required and will continue to require us to implement changes to our existing operations and to adopt new procedures to deal with and manage the performance of these outsource providers. any delay or failure in the implementation of our operational changes and new procedures could adversely affect our customer relationships and/or have a negative effect on our operating results. once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor equipment. we are subject to risks associated with our competitors strategic relationships and their introduction of new products and we may lack the financial resources or technological capabilities of certain of our competitors needed to capture increased market share we expect to face significant competition from multiple current and future competitors. we believe that other companies are developing systems and products that are competitive to ours and are planning to introduce new products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we will require significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r d. certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to increasingly dominate the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. in addition, our competitors may provide innovative technology that may have performance advantages over systems we currently, or expect to, offer. they may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we currently are developing additional product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, we may be unable to continue to compete in our markets, competition may intensify, or future competition may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. our future success depends on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales accounted for approximately 84% in fiscal year 2007, 86% in fiscal year 2006 and 84% in fiscal year 2005 of our total revenue. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue in future years. we are subject to various challenges related to the management of global operations, and international sales are subject to risks including, but not limited to: trade balance issues; economic and political conditions; changes in currency controls; differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to develop relationships with local suppliers; compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations, including u.s. export restrictions; fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people for the operation of our business. 15 table of contents certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. government. our failure or inability to obtain such licenses would substantially limit our markets and severely restrict our revenues. many of the challenges noted above are applicable in china, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. as the business volume between china and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships between china, taiwan, japan, and the united states. political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions which would adversely affect our business with china and/or taiwan and perhaps the entire asia region. a significant trade disruption in these areas could have a material, adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars except for certain of our revenues in japan that are denominated in japanese yen, certain of our spares and service contracts which are denominated in other currencies, and expenses related to our non-u.s. sales and support offices which are denominated in these countries local currency. we currently enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the exchange rate fluctuations on japanese yen-denominated assets and forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenue where we currently believe our primary exposure to currency rate fluctuation lies and will continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, in the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of customer acceptances and our forecasts of those acceptances may leave us either over- or under-hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging our yen-denominated assets with currency forward contracts, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we currently do not enter into such forward contracts for currencies other than the yen, and we therefore are subject to both favorable and unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in other currencies. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals. we believe that we are in general compliance with these regulations and that we have obtained (or will obtain or are otherwise addressing) all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business. these permits generally relate to the disposal of hazardous wastes. nevertheless, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, suspension of production, cessation of our operations or reduction in our customers acceptance of our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, to acquire significant equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. our failure to control the use, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. if we are unable to adjust the scale of our business in response to rapid changes in demand in the semiconductor equipment industry, our operating results and our ability to compete successfully may be impaired the business cycle in the semiconductor equipment industry has historically been characterized by frequent periods of rapid change in demand that challenge our management to adjust spending and resources allocated to operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems and procedures and in training, managing, and appropriately sizing our supply chain, our work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. if we do not adequately meet these challenges, our gross margins and earnings may be impaired during periods of demand decline, and we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during periods of demand growth. if we choose to acquire or dispose of product lines and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. as a result, we may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies, such as our march 2008 acquisition of sez holding ag, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies or reducing personnel entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, 16 table of contents diversion of management attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations among others. we anticipate that our recent acquisition of sez will give rise to risks like these, as we integrate its operations with ours. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, any acquisitions could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and/or the price of our common stock. the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital or make acquisitions the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to factors, including but not limited to the following: general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; global economic fluctuations; variations in our quarterly operating results; variations in our revenues or earnings from levels experienced by other companies in our industry or forecasts by securities analysts; announcements of restructurings, technological innovations, reductions in force, departure of key employees, consolidations of operations, or introduction of new products; government regulations; developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; success or failure of our new and existing products; liquidity of lam research; disruptions with key customers or suppliers; or political, economic, or environmental events occurring globally or in any of our key sales regions. in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the actual or anticipated movement in interest rates and the price of and markets for semiconductors. these broad market and industry factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on the price for our common stock. 17 table of contents we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. these information systems may be owned by us or by our outsource providers or even third parties such as vendors and contractors and may be maintained by us or by such providers and third parties. these information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment. to the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks. however, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. intellectual property and other claims against us can be costly and could result in the loss of significant rights which are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition or other claims against us. from time to time, other parties send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, our bylaws and indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to lam research. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. moreover, although we seek to obtain insurance to protect us from claims and cover losses to our property, there is no guarantee that such insurance will fully indemnify us for any losses that we may incur. we may fail to protect our proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. while we attempt to protect our proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and trade secret protection, we believe that our success also depends on increasing our technological expertise, continuing our development of new systems, increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base, and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. however, we may be unable to protect our technology in all instances, or our competitors may develop similar or more competitive technology independently. we currently hold a number of united states and foreign patents and pending patent applications. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the united states or foreign governments issue to us or these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications. in addition, the rights granted or anticipated under any of these patents or pending patent applications may be narrower than we expect or, in fact provide no competitive advantages. we are subject to the internal control evaluation and attestation requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we are required to include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our audited financial statements as of the end of each fiscal year. furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm (the independent registered public accounting firm or the firm ) is required to report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. we have successfully completed our assessment and obtained our independent registered public accounting firm attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of june 24, 2007. in future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot timely attest to our assessment, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence in our internal control. in addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. our independent registered public accounting firm must confirm its independence in order for us to meet our regulatory reporting obligations on a timely basis our independent registered public accounting firm communicates with us at least annually regarding any relationships between the firm and lam research that, in the firm professional judgment, might have a bearing on the firm independence with respect to us. if, for whatever reason, our independent registered public accounting firm finds that it cannot confirm that it is independent of lam research based on existing securities laws and registered public accounting firm independence standards, we could experience delays or other failures to meet our regulatory reporting obligations. 18 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and variable rate long-term debt. we target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average tax equivalent interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio at june 24, 2007 and june 25, 2006: june 25, june 24, 2007 2006 fiscal year ending june 29, june 28, june 27, june 26, june 24, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 there-after total fair value total (in thousands, except percentages) cash equivalents principal amount with variable rate - - money market fund $ 529,968 $ 529,968 $ 529,968 730,887 average rate 5.24 % 5.24 % 4.95 % principal amount with fixed rate securities $ $ 113,566 average rate 5.10 % short-term investment principal amount with fixed rate $ 30,636 $ 28,829 $ 15,761 $ 6,979 $ 8,482 $ 6,859 $ 97,546 $ 96,724 142,331 average rate 4.68 % 4.98 % 4.69 % 5.16 % 5.07 % 4.64 % 4.85 % 4.19 % restricted cash/investments principal amount with fixed rate time deposit $ 85,038 $ 85,038 $ 85,038 average rate 5.25 % 5.25 % principal amount with variable rate - - auction rate notes/vrdn $ 12,100 $ 1,000 $ 13,100 $ 13,096 70,575 average rate (taxable equivalent yield) 3.87 % 5.73 % 4.24 % 5.64 % principal amount with fixed rate - - restricted securities $ 50,696 $ 96,759 $ 65,231 $ 28,992 $ 16,610 $ 4,869 $ 263,157 $ 261,904 400,450 average rate (taxable equivalent yield) 3.67 % 3.00 % 3.66 % 3.82 % 3.89 % 4.53 % 3.68 % 5.12 % total investment securities $ 708,438 $ 126,588 $ 80,992 $ 35,971 $ 25,092 $ 11,728 $ 988,809 $ 986,730 1,457,809 average rate 4.45 % 3.91 % 3.86 % 4.08 % 4.29 % 4.60 % 4.27 % 4.41 % long-term debt variable rate $ $ $ $ 250,000 $ $ $ 250,000 $ 250,000 $ 350,000 average rate 5.42 % 5.42 % 5.65 % 54 table of contents the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities as a result of selected potential market decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 24, 2007 are as follows: valuation of securities given an interest rate fair value as of valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points june 24, 2007 increase of x basis points (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 0.00% 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) u.s. treasury $ 3,003 $ 2,969 $ 2,936 $ 2,902 $ 2,869 $ 2,835 $ 2,801 government sponsored entity 21,697 21,583 21,470 21,356 21,242 21,129 21,015 corporate 208,737 207,750 206,763 205,776 204,788 203,800 202,813 municipal 232,389 230,502 228,615 226,728 224,841 222,954 221,067 $ 465,826 $ 462,804 $ 459,784 $ 456,762 $ 453,740 $ 450,718 $ 447,696 we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars except for certain of our revenues in japan that are denominated in japanese yen, certain of our spares and service contracts which are denominated in other currencies, and expenses related to our non-u.s. sales and support offices which are denominated in these countries local currency. we currently enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the exchange rate fluctuations on japanese yen-denominated assets and forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenue where we currently believe our primary exposure to currency rate fluctuation lies. to protect against the reduction in value of forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenues, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts that generally expire within 12 months, and no later than 24 months. these foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value with the effective portion of the contracts gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of japanese yen-denominated net receivable balances. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income and expense and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated intercompany and trade receivables, recorded in other income and expense, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. on june 24, 2007, the notional amount of outstanding japanese yen forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges was $30.2 million. the unrealized gain on the contracts on june 24, 2007, was $0.1 million. as of june 24, 2007, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent and 15 percent in the japanese yen would result in a potential loss in fair value of our balance sheet hedge forward contracts of $3.0 million and $4.5 million, respectively. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income and expense by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated intercompany and trade receivables assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. on june 24, 2007, the notional amount of outstanding japanese yen forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges was $77.6 million. as of june 24, 2007, a hypothetical adverse foreign currency exchange rate movement of 10 percent and 15 percent in the japanese yen would result in a potential loss in fair value of our cash flow hedge forward contracts of $7.8 million and $11.6 million, respectively. our outstanding long-term debt of $250.0 million bears interest at libor plus a spread ranging from 0.10% to 0.50%, depending upon a consolidated leverage ratio, as defined in the lri credit agreement. the initial spread under the lri credit agreement is 0.10%. the principal payment of $250 million is due on june 19, 2011. the fair value of long-term debt approximates its carrying value due to the variable interest rate applicable to the debt. please see additional information under subsequent events regarding termination of the lri credit agreement and our entry into a new credit agreement. 55 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and long-term debt obligations. we maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio, long-term assets and long-term debt obligations at june 27, 2004 and june 29, 2003: june 29, june 27, 2004 2003 there- fair 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 after total value total (in thousands) cash equivalents fixed rate $ 57,739 $ $ $ $ $ $ 57,739 $ 57,739 $ 119,805 average rate 1.20 % 1.20 % 1.14 % short-term investments fixed rate $ 59,756 $ 123,851 $ 63,330 $ 15,471 $ 601 $ $ 263,009 $ 261,069 $ 232,718 average rate 1.78 % 2.24 % 3.27 % 3.63 % 4.60 % 2.47 % 2.20 % auction rate preferreds variable rate $ 4,998 $ $ $ $ $ $ 4,998 $ 5,000 $ 106,186 average rate 1.29 % 1.29 % 1.48 % restricted cash fixed rate $ 112,468 $ $ $ $ $ $ 112,468 $ 112,468 $ 118,468 average rate 1.00 % 1.00 % 1.06 % total investment securities $ 234,961 $ 123,851 $ 63,330 $ 15,471 $ 601 $ $ 438,214 $ 436,276 $ 577,177 average rate 1.25 % 2.24 % 3.27 % 3.63 % 4.60 % 1.91 % 1.61 % long-term debt fixed rate $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 300,000 average rate 4.00 % we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by constantly positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. we had no foreign exchange cash flow exposure related to our fixed rate 4% notes. we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. for this reason, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on the value of our japanese yen-denominated assets. the changes in the fair value of these contracts are recorded in other income and expense. in addition, we periodically hedge anticipated cash flow transactions with foreign currency forward contracts. we defer the gains and losses on these contracts and recognize them in income during the same period as the hedged transaction is recognized in income. on june 27, 2004, the notional amount of outstanding japanese yen forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges was $48.1 million. the unrealized gain on the contracts on june 27, 2004, was $0.1 million. a 15% appreciation of the japanese yen would result in an unrealized loss of $8.5 million. depreciation in the exchange rate of the japanese yen of approximately 15% would result in an unrealized gain of $6.2 million. 41 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and variable rate long-term debt. we maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. the table below presents principal amounts and related weighted-average tax equivalent interest rates by year of maturity for our investment portfolio at june 25, 2006 and june 26, 2005: june 26, june 25, 2006 2005 fiscal year ending june 24, june 29, june 28, june 27, june 26, there- fair 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 after total value total (in thousands, except percentages) cash equivalents variable rate $ 730,887 $ $ $ $ $ $ 730,887 $ 730,887 $ average rate 4.95 % 4.95 % fixed rate $ 113,566 $ $ $ $ $ $ 113,566 $ 113,509 $ 378,183 average rate 5.10 % 5.10 % 3.05 % short-term investments fixed rate $ 42,125 $ 25,411 $ 31,346 $ 23,819 $ 6,760 $ 12,870 $ 142,331 $ 139,524 $ 328,846 average rate 3.86 % 3.93 % 4.43 % 4.26 % 5.14 % 4.37 % 4.19 % 3.99 % restricted cash and investments variable rate $ 70,575 $ $ $ $ $ $ 70,575 $ 70,575 $ average rate 5.64 % 5.64 % fixed rate $ 328,643 $ 25,395 $ 14,968 $ 4,552 $ 9,082 $ 17,810 $ 400,450 $ 399,463 $ 85,038 average rate 5.08 % 4.94 % 5.27 % 4.83 % 5.89 % 5.66 % 5.12 % 3.00 % total investment securities $ 1,285,796 $ 50,806 $ 46,314 $ 28,371 $ 15,842 $ 30,680 $ 1,457,809 $ 1,453,958 $ 792,067 average rate 4.68 % 4.44 % 4.70 % 4.35 % 5.57 % 5.12 % 4.41 % 3.43 % long-term debt variable rate $ $ $ $ $ 350,000 $ $ 350,000 $ 350,000 $ average rate 5.65 % 5.65 % we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars except for certain of our revenues in japan that are denominated in japanese yen, certain of our spares and service contracts which are denominated in other currencies, and expenses related to our non-u.s. sales and support offices which are denominated in these countries local currency. we currently enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the exchange rate fluctuations on japanese yen-denominated assets and forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenue where we currently believe our primary exposure to currency rate fluctuation lies. to protect against the reduction in value of forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenues, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts that generally expire within 12 months, and no later than 24 months. these foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value with the effective portion of the contracts gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of japanese yen-denominated net receivable balances. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income and expense and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated intercompany and trade receivables, recorded in other income and expense, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. on june 25, 2006, the notional amount of outstanding japanese yen forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges was $23.5 million. the unrealized gain on the contracts on june 25, 2006, was $0.1 million. a 15% appreciation of the japanese yen would result in an unrealized loss of $4.1 million. depreciation in the exchange rate of the japanese yen of approximately 15% would result in an unrealized gain of $3.1 million. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income and expense by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated intercompany and trade receivables assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. on june 25, 2006, the notional amount of outstanding japanese yen forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges was $193.8 million. a 15% appreciation of the japanese yen would 32 table of contents result in an unrealized loss of $34.2 million. depreciation in the exchange rate of the japanese yen of approximately 15% would result in an unrealized gain of $25.3 million. our outstanding long-term debt of $350.0 million bears interest at libor plus a spread ranging from 0.10% to 0.50%, depending upon a consolidated leverage ratio, as defined in the credit agreement. the initial spread under the credit agreement is 0.10%. the principal payment of $350 million is due on june 19, 2011. the fair value of long-term debt approximates its carrying value due to the variable interest rate applicable to the debt.risk factors 13 risk factors in addition to the other information in this 2008 form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the company and its business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear. our quarterly revenues and operating results are unpredictable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. if revenue levels in a particular quarter do not meet our expectations, our operating results may be adversely affected. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a single transaction can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include, but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries generally and the equipment industry specifically; the extent that customers use our products and services in their business; timing of customer acceptances of equipment; the size and timing of orders from customers; customer cancellations or delays in our shipments, installations, and/or acceptances; changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; our ability in a timely manner to develop, introduce and market new, enhanced, and competitive products; our competitors introduction of new products; legal or technical challenges to our products and technology; changes in import/export regulations; transportation, communication, demand, information technology or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control such as acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, and natural disasters; legislative, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes or changes in their interpretation; procurement shortages; manufacturing difficulties; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; new or modified accounting regulations and practices; and exchange rate fluctuations. further, because a significant amount of our r d and administrative operations and capacity is located at our fremont, california campus, natural, physical, logistical or other events or disruptions affecting these facilities (including labor disruptions, earthquakes, and power failures) could adversely impact our financial performance. 13 table of contents we derive our revenues primarily from a relatively small number of high-priced systems system sales constitute a significant portion of our total revenue. our systems can range in price up to approximately $6 million per unit, and our revenues in any given quarter are dependent upon the acceptance of a rather limited number of such systems. as a result, the inability to declare revenue on even a few systems can cause a significant adverse impact on our revenues for that quarter. variations in the amount of time it takes for our customers to accept our systems may cause fluctuation in our operating results we generally recognize revenue for new system sales on the date of customer acceptance or the date the contractual customer acceptance provisions lapse. as a result, the fiscal period in which we are able to recognize new systems revenues is typically subject to the length of time that our customers require to evaluate the performance of our equipment after shipment and installation, which could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. the semiconductor equipment industry is volatile and reduced product demand has a negative impact on shipments our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits and products using integrated circuits. the semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and historically experiences periodic downturns. business conditions historically have changed rapidly and unpredictably. fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers could continue to materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues and operating results. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in research and development and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our financial results. we depend on new products and processes for our success. consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances enabling such processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products have reliability or quality problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture new products successfully or new products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. our failure to complete commercialization of these new products in a timely manner could result in unanticipated costs and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. in order to develop new products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r d and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers or other members of the industry. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products. moreover, future technologies, processes or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, or obsolete inventory, or both. we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products, and we expect these products to continue to account for a large percentage of our revenues in the near term. continued market acceptance of these products is, therefore, critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products; a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products; export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions which limit our ability to sell those products to key customer or market segments; an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the market in which we participate; increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines; technological change that we are unable to address with our products; or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. 14 table of contents in addition, the fact that we offer a more limited product line creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products as well. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. since we are primarily a provider of etch equipment, our business is affected by our customers use of etching steps in their processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductor chips requires fewer etching steps, this might have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, new orders and profitability. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to revenue swings that are difficult to predict. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers, so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. strategic alliances may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor companies are entering into strategic alliances with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies. often, one of the outcomes of such an alliance is the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function or a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment. while this could work to our advantage if lam research equipment becomes the basis for the function or process, it could work to our disadvantage if a competitor tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such function or process. in the latter case, even if lam research equipment was previously used by a customer, that equipment may be displaced in current and future applications by the tools standardized by the alliance. similarly, our customers may team with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. these actions could adversely impact our market share and subsequent business. we are dependent upon a limited number of key suppliers we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. we have established long-term contracts with many of these suppliers. these long-term contracts can take a variety of forms. we may renew these contracts periodically. in some cases, these suppliers sold us products during at least the last four years, and we expect that we will continue to renew these contracts in the future or that we will otherwise replace them with competent alternative suppliers. however, several of our suppliers are relatively new providers to us so that our experience with them and their performance is limited. where practical, our intent is to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single supplier will adversely affect our business. nevertheless, a prolonged inability to obtain certain components could impair our ability to ship products, lower our revenues and thus adversely affect our operating results and result in damage to our customer relationships. our outsource providers may fail to perform as we expect outsource providers have played and will play key roles in our manufacturing operations and in many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. although we aim at selecting reputable providers and secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition, the expansive role of outsource providers has required and will continue to require us to implement changes to our existing operations and to adopt new procedures to deal with and manage the performance of these outsource providers. any delay or failure in the implementation of our operational changes and new procedures could adversely affect our customer relationships and/or have a negative effect on our operating results. once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor equipment. 15 table of contents we are subject to risks associated with our competitors strategic relationships and their introduction of new products and we may lack the financial resources or technological capabilities of certain of our competitors needed to capture increased market share we expect to face significant competition from multiple current and future competitors. we believe that other companies are developing systems and products that are competitive to ours and are planning to introduce new products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we will require significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r d. certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to increasingly dominate the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. in addition, our competitors may provide innovative technology that may have performance advantages over systems we currently, or expect to, offer. they may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we currently are developing additional product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, we may be unable to continue to compete in our markets, competition may intensify, or future competition may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. our future success depends on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales accounted for approximately 83% in fiscal year 2008, 84% in fiscal year 2007 and 86% in fiscal year 2006 of our total revenue. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue in future years. we are subject to various challenges related to the management of global operations, and international sales are subject to risks including, but not limited to: trade balance issues; economic and political conditions; changes in currency controls; differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to develop relationships with local suppliers; compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations, including u.s. export restrictions; fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people for the operation of our business. certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. government. our failure or inability to obtain such licenses would substantially limit our markets and severely restrict our revenues. many of the challenges noted above are applicable in china, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. as the business volume between china and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships between china, taiwan, japan, and the united states. political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions which would adversely affect our business with china and/or taiwan and perhaps the entire asia region. a significant trade disruption in these areas could have a material, adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars except for certain of our revenues that are denominated in japanese yen, certain of our revenues and expenses denominated in the euro, certain of our spares and service contracts which are denominated in various currencies, and expenses related to our non-u.s. sales and support offices which are denominated in these countries local currency. 16 table of contents we currently enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the exchange rate fluctuations on japanese yen-denominated assets and forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenue and also on u.s. dollar-denominated assets where the euro is the functional currency. we currently believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. we expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, in the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of customer acceptances and our forecasts of those acceptances may leave us either over- or under-hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging our yen-denominated assets and u.s. dollar-denominated assets with currency forward contracts, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we currently do not enter into such forward contracts for currencies other than the yen, and we therefore are subject to both favorable and unfavorable exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in other currencies. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals. we believe that we are in general compliance with these regulations and that we have obtained (or will obtain or are otherwise addressing) all necessary environmental permits to conduct our business. these permits generally relate to the disposal of hazardous wastes. nevertheless, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, suspension of production, cessation of our operations or reduction in our customers acceptance of our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, to acquire significant equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. our failure to control the use, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. if we are unable to adjust the scale of our business in response to rapid changes in demand in the semiconductor equipment industry, our operating results and our ability to compete successfully may be impaired the business cycle in the semiconductor equipment industry has historically been characterized by frequent periods of rapid change in demand that challenge our management to adjust spending and resources allocated to operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems and procedures and in training, managing, and appropriately sizing our supply chain, our work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. if we do not adequately meet these challenges, our gross margins and earnings may be impaired during periods of demand decline, and we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during periods of demand growth. 17 table of contents if we choose to acquire or dispose of product lines and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. as a result, we may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies, such as our march 2008 acquisition of sez, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies, that no longer fit our long-term strategies. managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies or reducing personnel entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations among others. we anticipate that our recent acquisition of sez will give rise to risks like these, as we integrate its operations with ours. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, any acquisitions could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and/or the price of our common stock. the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital or make acquisitions the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to factors, including but not limited to the following: general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; global economic fluctuations; variations in our quarterly operating results; variations in our revenues, earnings or other business and financial metrics from those experienced by other companies in our industry or forecasts by securities analysts; announcements of restructurings, technological innovations, reductions in force, departure of key employees, consolidations of operations, or introduction of new products; government regulations; developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; success or failure of our new and existing products; liquidity of lam research; disruptions with key customers or suppliers; or political, economic, or environmental events occurring globally or in any of our key sales regions. in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the actual or anticipated movement in interest rates and the price of and markets for semiconductors. these broad market and industry factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on the price for our common stock. 18 table of contents we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. these information systems may be owned by us or by our outsource providers or even third parties such as vendors and contractors and may be maintained by us or by such providers and third parties. these information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment. to the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks. however, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. intellectual property and other claims against us can be costly and could result in the loss of significant rights which are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition or other claims against us. from time to time, other parties send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, our bylaws and indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to lam research. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. moreover, although we seek to obtain insurance to protect us from claims and cover losses to our property, there is no guarantee that such insurance will fully indemnify us for any losses that we may incur. we may fail to protect our proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. while we attempt to protect our proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and trade secret protection, we believe that our success also depends on increasing our technological expertise, continuing our development of new systems, increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base, and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. however, we may be unable to protect our technology in all instances, or our competitors may develop similar or more competitive technology independently. we currently hold a number of united states and foreign patents and pending patent applications. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the united states or foreign governments issue to us or these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications. in addition, the rights granted or anticipated under any of these patents or pending patent applications may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. we are subject to the internal control evaluation and attestation requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we are required to include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our audited financial statements as of the end of each fiscal year. furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm (the independent registered public accounting firm ) is required to report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. we have successfully completed our assessment and obtained our independent registered public accounting firm attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of june 29, 2008. in future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot timely attest to our assessment, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence in our internal control. in addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. our independent registered public accounting firm must confirm its independence in order for us to meet our regulatory reporting obligations on a timely basis our independent registered public accounting firm communicates with us at least annually regarding any relationships between the independent registered public accounting firm and lam research that, in the independent registered public accounting firm professional judgment, might have a bearing on the independent registered public accounting firm independence with respect to us. if, for whatever reason, our independent registered public accounting firm finds that it cannot confirm that it is independent of lam research based on existing securities laws and registered public accounting firm independence standards, we could experience delays or other failures to meet our regulatory reporting obligations. 19 table of contents the results of our independent committee review of our historical stock option practices and resulting restatements may continue to have adverse effects on our financial results. the review by a special committee of our board of directors consisting of two independent board members (the independent committee ) of our historical stock option practices and the resulting restatement of our historical financial statements have required us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal, and other expenses during fiscal year 2008. the resulting restatements have had a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we have restated our historical results of operations to record additional non-cash, stock-based compensation expense of $95.2 million in the aggregate for the periods from fiscal 1997 to fiscal 2006 (excluding the impact of related payroll and income taxes). we amortized less than $0.1 million of compensation expense under statement of financial accounting standards no. 123r ( sfas no. 123r ) in periods subsequent to fiscal year 2006 to properly account for previously issued stock options with deemed incorrect measurement dates. furthermore, to address potential adverse tax consequences certain of our employees have incurred or may incur as a result of the issuance and/or exercise of misdated stock options, we have taken and will continue to take remedial actions to make such employees including our chief executive officer and other affected executive officers, whole for any or all such additional tax liabilities which were approximately $50 million as of june 29, 2008. such actions have caused and in the future may cause us to incur additional cash or noncash compensation expense. see the explanatory note immediately preceding part i, item 1 and note 3, restatements of consolidated financial statements, to notes to consolidated financial statements of our annual report on form 10-k as of and for the year ended june 24, 2007 ( 2007 form 10-k ) for further discussion. we may be subject to the risks of lawsuits in connection with our historical stock option practices, the resulting restatements, and the remedial measures we have taken. we, and our current and former directors and officers, may become the subject of shareholder derivative and/or class action lawsuits and other legal proceedings relating to our historical stock option practices and resulting restatements in the future. we may also be subject to other kinds of lawsuits. should any of these events occur, they could require us to expend significant management time and incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses. this could divert attention and resources from the operation of our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the ultimate outcome of these potential actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price for our securities. litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. the defense of these potential lawsuits could result in significant expenditures. subject to certain limitations, we are obliged to indemnify our current and former directors, officers and employees in connection with any government inquiry or litigation related to our historical stock option practices that may arise. we currently hold insurance policies for the benefit of our directors and officers, although there can be no assurance that the insurance would cover all of the expenses that would be associated with any proceedings. judgment and estimates utilized by us in determining stock option grant dates and related adjustments may be subject to change due to subsequent sec guidance or other disclosure requirements. in determining the restatement adjustments in connection with the stock option review, management used all reasonably available relevant information to form conclusions it believes are appropriate as to the most likely option granting actions that occurred, the dates when such actions occurred, and the determination of grant dates for financial accounting purposes based on when the requirements of the accounting standards were met. we considered various alternatives throughout the course of the review and restatement, and we believe the approaches used were the most appropriate, and that the choices of measurement dates used in our review of stock option grant accounting and restatement of our financial statements were reasonable and appropriate in our circumstances. however, the sec may issue additional guidance on disclosure requirements related to the financial impact of past stock option grant measurement date errors that may require us to amend this filing or other filings with the sec to provide additional disclosures pursuant to such additional guidance. any such circumstance could also lead to future delays in filing our subsequent sec reports. furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we recently regained compliance with sec reporting requirements. if we are unable to remain in compliance, there may be a material adverse effect on our business and our stockholders. as a consequence of the independent committee review of our historical stock option practices and resulting restatements of our financial statements, for several quarters, we were not able to file our periodic reports with the sec on a timely basis and faced the possibility of delisting of our stock from the nasdaq global select market. we have filed all of our tardy filings, which remediated the company non-compliance with marketplace rule 4310(c) (14), and believe we are we are in compliance with all applicable reporting requirements. however, if the sec disagrees with the manner in which the financial impact of past stock option grants has been accounted for and reported, or not reported, there could be delays in filing future sec reports. see the explanatory note immediately preceding part i, item 1 and note 3, restatements of consolidated financial statements, to consolidated financial statements of our 2007 form 10-k for further discussion. 20 table of contents as a result of the delayed filings of our quarterly reports on form 10-q for the quarters ended september 23, 2007 and december 23, 2007, as well as of the 2007 form 10-k, we are ineligible to register our securities on form s-3 for sale by us or resale by others until one year from march 31, 2008, the date the last delinquent filing was made. we may use form s-1 to raise capital or complete acquisitions, but doing so could increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investments we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. as of june 29, 2008, these securities are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. fixed income securities our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and variable rate long-term debt. at any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. we target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities as a result of selected potential market decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 29,2008 are as follows: 40 table of contents valuation of securities given an interest rate fair value as of valuation of securities given an interest decrease of x basis points june 29, 2008 rate increase of x basis points (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 0.00% 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) municipal notes and bonds $ 150,712 $ 149,525 $ 148,341 $ 147,157 $ 145,974 $ 144,790 $ 143,605 u.s. treasury and agencies 40,064 39,841 39,617 39,393 39,169 38,945 38,721 government-sponsored enterprises 21,744 21,539 21,333 21,127 20,921 20,715 20,509 bank and corporate notes 263,750 262,929 262,108 261,288 260,467 259,646 258,825 total $ 476,270 $ 473,834 $ 471,399 $ 468,965 $ 466,531 $ 464,096 $ 461,660 we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. publicly traded equity securities and equity mutual funds the values of our equity investments in publicly traded equity securities and equity mutual funds are subject to equity price risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded equity security and equity mutual funds as a result of selected potential decreases and increases in the price of each equity security in the portfolio. potential fluctuations in the price of each equity security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, 25% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. the hypothetical fair values as of june 29, 2008 are as follows: valuation of securities given an x% decrease in stock fair value as of valuation of securities given an x% price june 29, 2008 increase in stock price (25%) (15%) (10%) 0.00% 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) equity mutual funds $ 2,481 $ 2,812 $ 2,977 $ 3,306 $ 3,637 $ 3,802 $ 4,133 publicly traded equity securities $ 2,542 $ 2,881 $ 3,050 $ 3,389 $ 3,728 $ 3,897 $ 4,236 foreign currency derivatives we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars except for certain of our revenues that are denominated in japanese yen, certain revenues and expenses denominated in the euro, certain of our spares and service contracts which are denominated in various currencies, and expenses related to our non-u.s. sales and support offices which are denominated in these countries local currency. we currently enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the exchange rate fluctuations on japanese yen-denominated net assets and forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenue and also on u.s. dollar-denominated assets where the euro is the functional currency. we currently believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. to protect against the reduction in value of forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenues, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts that generally expire within 12 months, and no later than 24 months. these foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value with the effective portion of the contracts gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of japanese yen-denominated net receivable balances against the u.s. dollar and u.s. dollar-denominated net receivable balances against the euro. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income and expense and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated intercompany and trade receivables, recorded in other income and expense, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. the notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges as of june 29, 2008 is shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of /- 10 percent and /- 15 percent. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income and expense by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated intercompany and trade receivables assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. 41 table of contents unrealized gain/(loss) as of fx contract change in fair value given an x% increase ( ) notional amount june 29, 2008 / decrease (-) in each fx rate /- 10% /- 15% (in millions) balance sheet hedge forward contracts sold $ 80.1 $ (0.8 ) /- $ 7.4 /- $ 11.2 the notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges as of june 29, 2008 is shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of /- 10 percent and /- 15 percent. unrealized fx contract change in fair value given an x% increase ( ) notional amount gain/(loss) as of / decrease (-) in each fx rate /- 10% /- 15% (in millions) cash flow hedge forward contracts sold $ 107.7 $ 5.9 /- $ 10.8 /- $ 16.2 long-term debt our long-term debt consists of $250 million in a non-revolving term loan with the following repayment terms: (a) $12.5 million of the principal amount due on each of (i) september 30, 2008, (ii) march 31, 2009 and (iii) september 30, 2009 and (b) the payment of the remaining principal amount on march 6, 2010. the outstanding principal amount bears interest at libor plus 0.75% per annum or, alternatively, at the agent prime rate. we may prepay the loan under the credit agreement in whole or in part at any time without penalty. at any time a sharp increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on interest expense and a material favorable effect on interest expense with a sharp decline in interest rates. a hypothetical change in interest rates on our variable rate long-term debt of 50 basis points would result in a change in interest expense of approximately $1.3 million per fiscal year. in addition, our long-term debt includes $3.8 million of variable rate debt based on local libor rates plus a spread of 0.50% and is subject to adverse as well as beneficial changes in interest expense due to fluctuation in interest rates.risk factors 11 risk factors in addition to the other information in this 2009 form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the company and its business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear. we face risks related to the deterioration in the general economic outlook and the downturn in the semiconductor industry current global economic conditions have impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. additionally, some of our customers ability to access credit has been adversely affected, which limits their ability to purchase our products and services. the degree of the impact on our business of the current credit and economic environment will continue to depend on a number of factors, including the duration and severity of the recession facing the u.s. economy and the global economy generally, and the semiconductor industry specifically. this impact may cause potential material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition including, but not limited to: an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers inability to pay us; an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; additional valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; additional restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; our investments may decrease in value; we may be exposed to claims from our suppliers for inventory that we order in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; the value of certain facilities we lease may ultimately be less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; we may have problems maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply; and demand for our products may continue to fall. our quarterly revenues and operating results are unpredictable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. if revenue levels in a particular quarter do not meet our expectations, our operating results may be adversely affected. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a single transaction can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include, but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries generally and the equipment industry specifically; the extent that customers use our products and services in their business; timing of customer acceptances of equipment; the size and timing of orders from customers; customer cancellations or delays in our shipments, installations, and/or acceptances; 11 table of contents changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; our ability in a timely manner to develop, introduce and market new, enhanced, and competitive products; our competitors introduction of new products; legal or technical challenges to our products and technology; changes in import/export regulations; transportation, communication, demand, information technology or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control such as acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, and natural disasters; legislative, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes or changes in their interpretation; procurement shortages; manufacturing difficulties; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. further, because a significant amount of our r&amp;d and administrative operations and capacity is located at our fremont, california campus, natural, physical, logistical or other events or disruptions affecting these facilities (including labor disruptions, earthquakes, and power failures) could adversely impact our financial performance. we derive our revenues primarily from a relatively small number of high-priced systems system sales constitute a significant portion of our total revenue. our systems are priced up to approximately $6 million per unit, and our revenues in any given quarter are dependent upon the acceptance of a rather limited number of such systems. as a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significant adverse impact on our revenues for that quarter. variations in the amount of time it takes for our customers to accept our systems may cause fluctuation in our operating results we generally recognize revenue for new system sales on the date of customer acceptance or the date the contractual customer acceptance provisions lapse. as a result, the fiscal period in which we are able to recognize new systems revenues is typically subject to the length of time that our customers require to evaluate the performance of our equipment after shipment and installation, which may vary from customer to customer and tool to tool. such variations could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. the semiconductor equipment industry is volatile and reduced product demand has a negative impact on shipments our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits and products using integrated circuits. the semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and historically experiences periodic downturns. business conditions historically have changed rapidly and unpredictably. fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers could continue to materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues and operating results. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in research and development and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our financial results. 12 table of contents we depend on new products and processes for our success. consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances enabling such processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products have reliability or quality problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture new products successfully, or new products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. our failure to complete commercialization of these new products in a timely manner could result in unanticipated costs and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. in order to develop new products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r&amp;d and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers or other members of the industry. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products. moreover, future technologies, processes or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, or obsolete inventory, or both. we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products, and we expect these products to continue to account for a large percentage of our revenues in the near term. continued market acceptance of these products is, therefore, critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products; a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products; export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions which could limit our ability to sell those products to key customer or market segments; an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the market in which we participate; increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines; technological change that we are unable to address with our products; or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. in addition, the fact that we offer a more limited product line creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products as well. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. since we are primarily a provider of etch equipment, our business is affected by our customers use of etching steps in their processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductor chips requires fewer etching steps, this could have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, new orders and profitability. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to revenue swings that are difficult to predict. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers, so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. 13 table of contents strategic alliances may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor companies are entering into strategic alliances with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies. often, one of the outcomes of such an alliance is the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function or a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment. while this could work to our advantage if our equipment becomes the basis for the function or process, it could work to our disadvantage if a competitor tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such function or process. in the latter case, even if our equipment was previously used by a customer, that equipment may be displaced in current and future applications by the tools standardized by the alliance. similarly, our customers may team with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. these actions could adversely impact our market share and subsequent business. we are dependent upon a limited number of key suppliers we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. we have established long-term contracts with many of these suppliers. these long-term contracts can take a variety of forms. we may renew these contracts periodically. in some cases, these suppliers sold us products during at least the last five years, and we expect that we will continue to renew these contracts in the future or that we will otherwise replace them with competent alternative suppliers. however, several of our suppliers are relatively new providers to us so that our experience with them and their performance is limited. where practical, our intent is to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single supplier will adversely affect our business. nevertheless, a prolonged inability to obtain certain components could impair our ability to ship products, lower our revenues and thus adversely affect our operating results and result in damage to our customer relationships. our outsource providers may fail to perform as we expect outsource providers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations and in many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. although we aim at selecting reputable providers and secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition, the expansive role of outsource providers has required and will continue to require us to implement changes to our existing operations and to adopt new procedures to deal with and manage the performance of these outsource providers. any delay or failure in the implementation of our operational changes and new procedures could adversely affect our customer relationships and/or have a negative effect on our operating results. once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor equipment. 14 table of contents we are subject to risks associated with our competitors strategic relationships and their introduction of new products and we may lack the financial resources or technological capabilities of certain of our competitors needed to capture increased market share we expect to face significant competition from multiple current and future competitors. we believe that other companies are developing systems and products that are competitive to ours and are planning to introduce new products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we will require significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r&amp;d. certain of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to increasingly dominate the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. in addition, our competitors may provide innovative technology that may have performance advantages over systems we currently, or expect to, offer. they may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we currently are developing additional product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, we may be unable to continue to compete in our markets, competition may intensify, or future competition may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. our future success depends on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales accounted for approximately 85% in fiscal year 2009, 83% in fiscal year 2008 and 84% in fiscal year 2007 of our total revenue. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenue in future years. we are subject to various challenges related to the management of global operations and international sales including, but not limited to: trade balance issues; economic and political conditions; changes in currency controls; differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to develop relationships with local suppliers; compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations, including u.s. export restrictions; fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people for the operation of our business. certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. government. our failure or inability to obtain such licenses would substantially limit our markets and severely restrict our revenues. many of the challenges noted above are applicable in china, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. as the business volume between china and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex 15 table of contents relationships between china, taiwan, japan, and the united states, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions which would adversely affect our business with china and/or taiwan and perhaps the entire asia pacific region. a significant trade disruption in these areas could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations related to certain of our revenues denominated in japanese yen and euros, and to certain of our spares and service contracts, and expenses related to our non-u.s. sales and support offices which are denominated in the related countries local currency. we currently enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on japanese yen-denominated assets and forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenue and on net intercompany liability exposures denominated in swiss francs, euros and taiwanese dollars. we currently believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. we expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, in the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of customer acceptances and our forecasts of those acceptances may leave us either over- or under-hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, assets and liabilities with foreign exchange forward contracts, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. dollar-denominated assets and liabilities other than those currency exposures previously discussed and currently do not enter into such foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these other foreign currency exposures, and we therefore are subject to both favorable and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in other currencies. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws or by material audit assessments, which could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals. we believe that we are in general compliance with these regulations and that we have obtained (or will obtain or are otherwise addressing the need for) all environmental permits necessary to conduct our business. these permits generally relate to the disposal of hazardous wastes. nevertheless, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, suspension of production, cessation of our operations or reduction in our customers acceptance of our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, to acquire significant equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. our failure to control the use, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. if we are unable to adjust the scale of our business in response to rapid changes in demand in the semiconductor equipment industry, our operating results and our ability to compete successfully may be impaired the business cycle in the semiconductor equipment industry has historically been characterized by frequent periods of rapid change in demand that challenge our management to adjust spending and resources allocated to 16 table of contents operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems and procedures, and in training, managing, and appropriately sizing our supply chain, our work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. if we do not adequately meet these challenges, our gross margins and earnings may be impaired during periods of demand decline, and we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during periods of demand growth. if we choose to acquire or dispose of product lines and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. as a result, we may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies, such as our march 2008 acquisition of sez, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies or reducing personnel entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations among others. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, any acquisition could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and/or the price of our common stock. the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital or make acquisitions the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to factors, including but not limited to the following: general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; global economic fluctuations; variations in our quarterly operating results; variations in our revenues, earnings or other business and financial metrics from those experienced by other companies in our industry or forecasts by securities analysts; announcements of restructurings, technological innovations, reductions in force, departure of key employees, consolidations of operations, or introduction of new products; government regulations; developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; success or failure of our new and existing products; liquidity of lam research; disruptions with key customers or suppliers; or political, economic, or environmental events occurring globally or in any of our key sales regions. 17 table of contents in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the actual or anticipated movement in interest rates and the price of and markets for semiconductors. these broad market and industry factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on the price for our common stock. we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. these information systems may be owned by us or by our outsource providers or even third parties such as vendors and contractors and may be maintained by us or by such providers and third parties. these information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment. to the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks. however, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. intellectual property, indemnity and other claims against us can be costly and could result in the loss of significant rights which are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition or other claims against us. from time to time, other parties send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, our bylaws and indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to lam research. we also face risks of claims from commercial and other relationships. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. moreover, although we seek to obtain insurance to protect us from claims and cover losses to our property, there is no guarantee that such insurance will fully indemnify us for any losses that we may incur. we may fail to protect our proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology. while we attempt to protect our proprietary technology through patents, copyrights and trade secret protection, we believe that our success also depends on increasing our technological expertise, continuing our development of new systems, increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base, and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. however, we may be unable to protect our technology in all instances, or our competitors may develop similar or more competitive technology independently. we currently hold a number of united states and foreign patents and pending patent applications. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the united states or foreign governments issue to us or these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications. in addition, the rights granted or anticipated under any of these patents or pending patent applications may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. 18 table of contents we are subject to the internal control evaluation and attestation requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we are required to include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our audited financial statements as of the end of each fiscal year. furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm (the independent registered public accounting firm ) is required to report on whether it believes we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year. we have successfully completed our assessment and obtained our independent registered public accounting firm attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of june 28, 2009. in future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot timely attest to our assessment, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence in our internal control. in addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. our independent registered public accounting firm must confirm its independence in order for us to meet our regulatory reporting obligations on a timely basis our independent registered public accounting firm communicates with us at least annually regarding any relationships between the independent registered public accounting firm and lam research that, in the independent registered public accounting firm professional judgment, might have a bearing on the independent registered public accounting firm independence with respect to us. if, for whatever reason, our independent registered public accounting firm finds that it cannot confirm that it is independent of lam research based on existing securities laws and registered public accounting firm independence standards, we could experience delays or other failures to meet our regulatory reporting obligations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investments we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. as of june 28, 2009, these securities are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. 41 table of contents fixed income securities our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio and variable rate long-term debt. at any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. we target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities as a result of selected potential market decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 28,2009 are as follows: valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of june 28, 2009 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x basis points (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 0.00% 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) municipal notes and bonds $ 106,193 $ 105,334 $ 104,476 $ 103,618 $ 102,759 $ 101,901 $ 101,043 us treasury &amp; agencies 25,078 24,780 24,482 24,184 23,885 23,587 23,289 government-sponsored enterprises 6,421 6,388 6,355 6,323 6,290 6,257 6,225 foreign government 1,025 1,025 1,025 1,024 1,024 1,024 1,023 bank and corporate notes 229,179 228,843 228,507 228,171 227,835 227,499 227,163 mortgage backed securities residential 11,868 11,789 11,709 11,630 11,551 11,472 11,393 mortgage backed securities commercial 13,688 13,606 13,524 13,442 13,361 13,279 13,197 total $ 393,450 $ 391,764 $ 390,078 $ 388,392 $ 386,706 $ 385,020 $ 383,333 we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. publicly traded equity securities the values of our equity investments in publicly traded equity securities are subject to equity price risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded equity securities as a result of selected potential decreases and increases in the price of each equity security in the portfolio. potential fluctuations in the price of each equity security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, 25% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. the hypothetical fair values as of june 28, 2009 are as follows: valuation of securities given an x% decrease in stock price fair value as of june 28, 2009 valuation of securities given an x% increase in stock price (25%) (15%) (10%) 0.00% 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) publicly traded equity securities $ 4,494 $ 5,093 $ 5,393 $ 5,992 $ 6,591 $ 6,891 $ 7,490 foreign currency derivatives we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars except for certain of our revenues that are denominated in japanese yen, certain revenues and expenses denominated in the euro, certain of our spares and service contracts which are denominated in various currencies, and expenses related to our non-u.s. sales and support offices which are denominated in the related countries local currency. we currently enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on japanese yen-denominated assets and forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenue and on net intercompany liability exposures denominated in swiss francs, euros and taiwanese dollars. we currently believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. 42 table of contents to protect against the reduction in value of forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenues, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts that generally expire within 12 months, and no later than 24 months. these foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value with the effective portion of the contracts gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of japanese yen-denominated net receivable balances against the u.s. dollar and net intercompany liability exposures denominated in swiss francs, euros and taiwanese dollars. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income and expense and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated intercompany and trade receivables also recorded in other income and expense, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. the notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges as of june 29, 2008 is shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. notional amount unrealized fx loss /(gain) june 28, 2009 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+) / decrease (-) in each fx rate (in $ millions) + /- (10%) + /- (15%) cash flow hedge forward contracts sold jpy/usd $ 24.1 $ 0.0 +/- $ 2.4 +/- $ 3.6 the notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges as of june 28, 2009 is shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income and expense by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated intercompany and trade receivables assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. notional amount unrealized fx loss /(gain) june 28, 2009 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+) / decrease (-) in each fx rate (in $ millions) + /- (10%) + /- (15%) balance sheet hedge jpy/usd $ 16.8 $ (0.1 ) +/- $ (1.7 ) +/- $ (2.5 ) usd/chf $ (138.8 ) $ (0.0 ) +/- $ 13.9 +/- $ 20.8 usd/twd $ (42.7 ) $ 0.1 +/- $ 4.3 +/- $ 6.4 usd/eur $ (97.6 ) $ 0.0 +/- $ 9.8 +/- $ 14.6 forward contracts sold $ (262.3 ) $ 0.1 +/- $ 26.2 +/- $ 39.4 long-term debt our long-term debt includes $3.3 million of variable rate debt based on local libor rates plus a spread of 0.875 and is subject to adverse as well as beneficial changes in interest expense due to fluctuation in interest rates. we believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support sustaining levels of investment in our business activities. based upon our current business outlook, our levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at june 28, 2009 are expected to be sufficient to support our anticipated levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, and capital expenditures, through at least the next 12 months. however, the current uncertainty in the global economic conditions and the recent disruption in credit markets have impacted customer demand for our products, as well as our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. if the current situation deteriorates further, our business could suffer further negative impacts. 43 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors in addition to the other information in this 2010 form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the company and its business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear. the semiconductor industry is subject to major fluctuations and, as a result, we face risks related to our strategic resource allocation decisions the business cycle in the semiconductor equipment industry has historically been characterized by frequent periods of rapid change in demand that challenge our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, procedures for training, managing, and appropriately sizing our supply chain, our work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. if we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of demand decline, our gross margins and earnings may be impaired. in late 2008 and throughout 2009, the semiconductor industry experienced a general decline in demand, leading to a steep decline in demand for our products and services. in response to that industry demand decline and in an effort to minimize the disruptive effects of the deteriorating economic conditions on our business operating results, we made difficult resource allocation decisions, including layoffs and restructurings. during fiscal year 2010 we transitioned into what we believe to be a period of demand growth, although the duration and intensity of the growth period is uncertain. this is fueled in large part by increased investment by customers who, during the downturn, reduced or eliminated their spending on our products. we continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment. if we do not adequately adapt to the changing business environment, we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during this period of growth; or, we may expand our capacity too rapidly and/or beyond what is appropriate for the actual demand environment. especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes. our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. future decline in the semiconductor equipment industry, and the overall world economic conditions on which it is significantly dependent, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. the semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and historically experiences periodic downturns. global economic and business conditions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. additionally, in times of economic uncertainty, some of our customers budgets for our products, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. this would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. as a result, economic downturns can cause material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition including, but not limited to: a decline in demand for our products; an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers inability to pay us; 11 table of contents an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; a decline in the value of our investments; exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; a decline in value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply. fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers may materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues and operating results. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in research and development and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our profitability and other financial results. our quarterly revenues and operating results are unpredictable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a small number of transactions can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include, but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries in general and specifically the equipment industry; the size and timing of orders from customers; procurement shortages; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; manufacturing difficulties; customer cancellations or delays in shipments, installations, and/or customer acceptances; the extent that customers continue to purchase and use our products and services in their business; changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; our ability in a timely manner to develop, introduce and market new, enhanced, and competitive products; our competitors introduction of new products; legal or technical challenges to our products and technology; transportation, communication, demand, information technology or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control such as acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, and natural disasters; natural, physical, logistical or other events or disruptions affecting our principal facilities (including labor disruptions, earthquakes, and power failures) 12 table of contents legal, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes (including but not limited to change in import/export regulations) or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing requirements; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. we derive our revenues primarily from a relatively small number of high-priced systems system sales constitute a significant portion of our total revenue. our systems are priced up to approximately $6 million per unit, and our revenues in any given quarter are dependent upon the acceptance of a limited number of systems. as a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significantly adverse impact on our revenues for that quarter. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, new orders and profitability. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to revenue swings that are difficult to predict. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers, so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. as of june 27, 2010, two customers accounted for approximately 24% and 22 % of accounts receivable. as of june 28, 2009, three customers accounted for approximately 17%, 15%, and 14% of accounts receivable. variations in the amount of time it takes for our customers to accept our systems may cause fluctuation in our operating results we generally recognize revenue for new system sales on the date of customer acceptance or the date the contractual customer acceptance provisions lapse. as a result, the fiscal period in which we are able to recognize new systems revenues is typically subject to the length of time that our customers require to evaluate the performance of our equipment after shipment and installation, which may vary from customer to customer and tool to tool. such variations could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. we depend on new products and processes for our success. consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products have reliability, quality, or design problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture new products successfully, or new products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. our failure to commercialize these new products in a timely manner could result in unanticipated costs and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. in order to develop new products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r&amp;d and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers or other members of the industry. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products. moreover, future technologies, processes or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, or obsolete inventory, or both. 13 table of contents we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products, and we expect our etch and clean products to continue to account for a large percentage of our revenues in the near term. continued market acceptance of these products is, therefore, critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products; a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products; export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customer or market segments; an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the market in which we participate; increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines; technological changes that we are unable to address with our products; or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. in addition, the fact that we offer limited product lines creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products as well. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. since we are a provider of etch and clean equipment, our business is affected by our customers use of etching and clean steps in their processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductor chips requires fewer etching or clean steps, this could have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. strategic alliances may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor companies are entering into strategic alliances with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies. often, one of the outcomes of such an alliance is the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function or a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment. while this could work to our advantage if our equipment becomes the basis for the function or process, it could work to our disadvantage if a competitor tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such function or process. in the latter case, even if our equipment was previously used by a customer, that equipment may be displaced in current and future applications by the tools standardized by the alliance. similarly, our customers may team with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. these actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results. we are dependent on a limited number of key suppliers we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. we have established long-term contracts with many of these suppliers. these long-term contracts can take a variety of forms. we may renew these contracts periodically. in some cases, these suppliers have sold us products during at least the last five years, and we expect that we will continue to renew these contracts in the future or that we will otherwise replace them with competent alternative suppliers. however, certain of our suppliers are relatively new providers to us so that our experience with them and their performance is limited. where practical, we intend to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single supplier will adversely affect our business. nevertheless, a prolonged inability to obtain certain components could impair our ability to ship products and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage to our customer relationships. 14 table of contents our outsource providers may fail to perform as we expect outsource providers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations and in many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. although we attempt to select reputable providers and secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition, the expansive role of our outsource providers has required and may continue to require us to implement changes to our existing operations and to adopt new procedures to deal with and manage the performance of these outsource providers. any delay or failure in the implementation of our operational changes and new procedures could adversely affect our customer and/or employee relationships, which could have a negative effect on our operating results. once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor equipment. we face a challenging and complex competitive environment we face significant competition from multiple competitors. other companies continue to develop systems and products that are competitive to ours and may introduce new products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we must devote significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r&amp;d. certain of our competitors, especially those that are created and financially backed by foreign governments, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to increasingly dominate the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. we also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. in addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, competition may intensify and we may be unable to continue to compete successfully in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. our future success depends on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales accounted for approximately 91% of total revenue in fiscal year 2010, 85% of total revenue in fiscal year 2009, and 83% in fiscal year 2008. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenue in future years. 15 table of contents we are subject to various challenges related to international sales and the management of global operations including, but not limited to: trade balance issues; global economic and political conditions; changes in currency controls; differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to respond to customer demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers; compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including u.s. export restrictions; fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business. certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. government. our failure or inability to obtain such licenses would substantially limit our markets and severely restrict our revenues. many of the challenges noted above are applicable in china, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. as the business volume between china and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships between china, taiwan, japan, and the united states that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions; this would adversely affect our business with china and/or taiwan and perhaps the entire asia pacific region. a significant trade disruption in these areas could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations related to certain of our revenues denominated in japanese yen and euros, as well as certain of our spares and service contracts, euro denominated expenses, and expenses related to our non-u.s. sales and support offices that are denominated in the related countries local currency. we currently enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on japanese yen-denominated revenue and monetary assets and liabilities, as well as monetary assets and liabilities denominated in swiss francs, euros and taiwanese dollars. we currently believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. we expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, in the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of customer acceptances and our forecasts of those acceptances may leave us either over- or under-hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, monetary assets and liabilities with foreign exchange forward contracts, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. dollar-denominated assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed) and currently we do not enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these other foreign currency exposures. therefore, we are subject to both favorable and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in other currencies. our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is critical to our success. our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees. this is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, as well as fluctuations in industry economic conditions that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. our success in 16 table of contents hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. we periodically evaluate our overall compensation programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. these information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsource providers or third parties such as vendors and contractors. these information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment. to the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to mitigate the outlined risks. however, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws, or by material audit assessments. these factors could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the discharge or disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals. we believe that we are generally in compliance with these regulations and that we have obtained (or will obtain or are otherwise addressing the need for) all environmental permits necessary to conduct our business. these permits generally relate to the disposal of hazardous wastes. nevertheless, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, require us to suspend production, or cease operations or cause our customers to not accept our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, to acquire significant additional equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. our failure to control the use, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. if we choose to acquire or dispose of product lines and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. as a result, we may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies, such as our march 2008 acquisition of sez holding ag ( sez ), or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies or reducing personnel entail numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible 17 table of contents assets and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, any acquisition could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and/or the price of our common stock. the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital or make acquisitions the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control or influence. these factors include but are not limited to the following: general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; economic or political events and trends occurring globally or in any of our key sales regions; variations in our quarterly operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity; variations in our revenues, earnings or other business and financial metrics from forecasts by us or securities analysts, or from those experienced by other companies in our industry; announcements of restructurings, reductions in force, departure of key employees, and/or consolidations of operations; government regulations; developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; technological innovations and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; commercial success or failure of our new and existing products; or disruptions of relationships with key customers or suppliers. in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the actual or anticipated movement in interest rates and the price of and markets for semiconductors. these broad market and industry factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our common stock. intellectual property, indemnity and other claims against us can be costly and we could lose significant rights that are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. from time to time, other parties send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property issues. we also face risks of claims from commercial and other relationships. in addition, our bylaws and indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to lam research. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements 18 table of contents on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results. moreover, although we seek to obtain insurance to protect us from claims and cover losses to our property, there is no guarantee that such insurance will fully compensate us for any losses that we may incur. we may fail to protect our critical proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights and trade secret protection. protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. as part of our strategy to protect our technology we currently hold a number of united states and foreign patents and pending patent applications. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the united states or foreign governments issue to us or these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications. additionally, even when patents are issued, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the united states. the rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents or pending patent applications may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. any of these circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our business if they relate to critical technologies. compliance with federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as nasdaq requirements, has become increasingly complex, and the significant attention and expense we must devote to those areas may have an adverse impact on our business federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as nasdaq rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. these laws, rules and regulations have increased, and in the future are expected to continue to increase, the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, which could harm our results of operations and divert management attention from business operations. a failure to comply with these regulations could also have a material adverse effect on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investments we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. as of june 27, 2010, the company mutual funds are classified as trading securities. investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. any material differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities is recognized as other income (expense) in the consolidated statement of operations. all of the company other short-term investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. 37 table of contents fixed income securities our investments in various interest earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. at any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. we target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 27, 2010 were as follows: valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of june 27, 2010 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x basis points (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 0.00% 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) municipal notes and bonds $ 106,397 $ 105,565 $ 104,733 $ 103,903 $ 103,070 $ 102,238 $ 101,407 us treasury &amp; agencies 3,484 3,472 3,459 3,447 3,435 3,423 3,411 government-sponsored enterprises 6,168 6,132 6,096 6,060 6,025 5,989 5,953 foreign government 1,010 1,009 1,009 1,008 1,007 1,006 1,005 bank and corporate notes 292,289 291,338 290,388 289,437 288,487 287,536 286,586 mortgage backed securities residential 6,198 6,167 6,137 6,106 6,076 6,046 6,016 mortgage backed securities commercial 43,844 43,551 43,257 42,964 42,671 42,377 42,084 total $ 459,390 $ 457,234 $ 455,079 $ 452,925 $ 450,771 $ 448,615 $ 446,462 we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. publicly traded securities the values of our investments in publicly traded securities are subject to market price risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in the price of each security in the portfolio. potential fluctuations in the price of each security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, or 25% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. the hypothetical fair values as of june 27, 2010 were as follows: valuation of securities given an x% decrease in security price fair value as of june 27, 2010 valuation of securities given an x% increase in security price (25%) (15%) (10%) 0.00% 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) mutual funds $ 13,593 $ 15,406 $ 16,312 $ 18,124 $ 19,937 $ 20,843 $ 22,655 publicly traded equity securities $ 5,739 $ 6,504 $ 6,886 $ 7,636 $ 8,417 $ 8,799 $ 9,565 foreign currency derivatives we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars except for certain revenues denominated in japanese yen, certain revenues and expenses denominated in the euro, certain spares and service contracts denominated in various currencies, and expenses related to our non-u.s. sales and support offices denominated in the related 38 table of contents countries local currency. we currently enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on japanese yen-denominated revenue and monetary asset and liability exposure, as well as monetary assets and liabilities denominated in swiss francs, euros and taiwanese dollars. we currently believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. to protect against the reduction in value of forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenue, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts that generally expire within 12 months, and no later than 24 months. these foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value, with the effective portion of the contracts gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of japanese yen-denominated monetary assets and liabilities against the u.s. dollar and monetary assets and liabilities denominated in swiss francs, euros and taiwanese dollars. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income (expense), net and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities also recorded in other income (expense), net, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. the notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges, as of june 27, 2010 are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. notional amount unrealized fx loss/(gain) june 27, 2010 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/ decrease(-) in each fx rate + /-(10%) + /-(15%) (in $ millions) cash flow hedge forward contracts sold jpy/usd $ 73.3 ($ 0.0 ) $ 7.3 $ 11.0 the notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges, as of june 27, 2010 are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net, by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. notional amount unrealized fx loss/(gain) june 27, 2010 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/ decrease(-) in each fx rate + /-(10%) + /-(15%) (in $ millions) balance sheet hedge jpy/usd $ 75.3 $ 1.3 $ 7.5 $ 11.3 usd/chf $ (188.6 ) $ (0.4 ) $ 18.9 $ 28.3 usd/twd $ (66.0 ) $ 0.9 $ 6.6 $ 9.9 usd/eur $ (38.2 ) $ (0.0 ) $ 3.8 $ 5.7 forward contracts sold $ (217.5 ) $ 1.8 $ 36.8 $ 55.2 long-term debt our long-term debt includes $1.8 million of variable rate debt based on libor plus a spread of 0.875 and is subject to adverse as well as beneficial changes in interest expense due to fluctuation in interest rates. we believe that maintaining sufficient liquidity reserves is important to support sustaining levels of investment in our business activities. based upon our current business outlook, our levels of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at june 27, 2010 are expected to be sufficient to support our anticipated 39 table of contents levels of operations, investments, debt service requirements, and capital expenditures, through at least the next 12 months. in the longer term, liquidity will depend to a great extent on our future revenues and our ability to appropriately manage our costs based on demand for our products. should additional funding be required, we may need to raise the required funds through borrowings or public or private sales of debt or equity securities. we believe that, in the event of such requirements, we will be able to access the capital markets on terms and in amounts adequate to meet our objectives. however, given the possibility of changes in market conditions or other occurrences, there can be no certainty that such funding will be available in needed quantities or on terms favorable to us.risk factors 11 risk factors in addition to the other information in this 2011 form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the company and its business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear. the semiconductor equipment industry is subject to major fluctuations and, as a result, we face risks related to our strategic resource allocation decisions the business cycle in the semiconductor equipment industry has historically been characterized by frequent periods of rapid change in demand that challenge our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, procedures for training and managing our work force, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. if we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of demand decline, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted. in late 2008 and throughout 2009, the semiconductor industry experienced a general decline in demand, leading to a steep decline in demand for our products and services. in response to that industry demand decline and in an effort to minimize the disruptive effects of the deteriorating economic conditions on our business operating results, we made difficult resource allocation decisions, including layoffs and restructurings. we continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment. if we do not adequately adapt to the changing business environment, we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during this period of growth, or we may expand our capacity too rapidly and/or beyond what is appropriate for the actual demand environment. especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes. our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. future declines in the semiconductor industry, and the overall world economic conditions on which it is significantly dependent, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. the semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and historically experiences periodic downturns. global economic and business conditions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. additionally, in times of economic 11 table of contents uncertainty, some of our customers budgets for our products, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. this would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. as a result, economic downturns can cause material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition including, but not limited to: a decline in demand for our products; an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers inability to pay us; an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; a decline in the value of our investments; exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply. fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers may materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues and operating results. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in research and development ( r&amp;d ) and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our profitability and other financial results. our quarterly revenues and operating results are unpredictable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a small number of transactions can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include, but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries in general and specifically the semiconductor equipment industry; the size and timing of orders from customers; procurement shortages; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; manufacturing difficulties; customer cancellations or delays in shipments, installations, and/or customer acceptances; the extent that customers continue to purchase and use our products and services in their business; changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; our ability in a timely manner to develop, introduce and market new, enhanced, and competitive products; 12 table of contents our competitors introduction of new products; legal or technical challenges to our products and technology; transportation, communication, demand, information technology or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control such as strikes, acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, and natural disasters; legal, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes (including but not limited to change in import/export regulations) or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing requirements; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and the dilutive impact of our convertible notes and related warrants on our earnings per share. our leverage and debt service obligations and potential note conversion or related hedging activities may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and earnings per share as a result of the sale of our convertible notes ( notes ), we have a greater amount of debt than we have maintained in the past. our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including: impacting our ability to satisfy our obligations; increasing the portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; and impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. as a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. if we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. conversion of our notes may cause dilution to our shareholders and to our earnings per share. upon conversion of any notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the notes, shares of our common stock, which would result in dilution to our shareholders. this dilution may be mitigated to some extent by the hedging transactions we entered into in connection with the sale of the notes. prior to the maturity of the notes, if the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, u.s. gaap requires that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share. the price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging activity that may develop involving our common stock by holders of the notes. we derive our revenues primarily from a relatively small number of high-priced systems system sales constitute a significant portion of our total revenue. our systems are priced up to approximately $6 million per unit, and our revenues in any given quarter are dependent upon the acceptance of a limited number of systems. as a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significantly adverse impact on our revenues for a given quarter. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments and profitability. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that are difficult to predict. in addition, large customers may be able to negotiate requirements that result in 13 table of contents increased costs and/or lower margins for us. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers, so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. as of june 26, 2011, three customers accounted for approximately 17%, 14%, and 10 % of accounts receivable. as of june 27, 2010, two customers accounted for approximately 24% and 22 % of accounts receivable. variations in the amount of time it takes for our customers to accept our systems may cause fluctuation in our operating results we generally recognize revenue for new system sales on the date of customer acceptance or the date the contractual customer acceptance provisions lapse. as a result, the fiscal period in which we are able to recognize new systems revenues is typically subject to the length of time that our customers require to evaluate the performance of our equipment after shipment and installation, which may vary from customer to customer and tool to tool. such variations could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. we depend on new products and processes for our success. consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products have reliability, quality, or design problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture new products successfully, or new products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. our failure to commercialize these new products in a timely manner could result in unanticipated costs and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. in order to develop new products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r&amp;d and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers or other members of the industry. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products. moreover, future technologies, processes or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, or obsolete inventory, or both. we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products, and we expect our etch and clean products to continue to account for a large percentage of our revenues in the near term. continued market acceptance of these products is, therefore, critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products; a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products; export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customer or market segments; an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the market in which we participate; increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines; technological changes that we are unable to address with our products; or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. in addition, the fact that we offer limited product lines creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products as well. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. since we are a provider of etch and clean equipment, 14 table of contents our business is affected by our customers use of etching and clean steps in their processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductor chips requires fewer etching or clean steps, this could have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. strategic alliances may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor manufacturing companies are entering into strategic alliances with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies. often, one of the outcomes of such an alliance is the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function or a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment. while this could work to our advantage if our equipment becomes the basis for the function or process, it could work to our disadvantage if a competitor tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such function or process. in the latter case, even if our equipment was previously used by a customer, that equipment may be displaced in current and future applications by the tools standardized by the alliance. similarly, our customers may team with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. these actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results. we are dependent on a limited number of key suppliers we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. we have established long-term contracts with many of these suppliers. these long-term contracts can take a variety of forms. we may renew these contracts periodically. in some cases, these suppliers have sold us products for a substantial period of time, and we expect that we and they will continue to renew these contracts in the future or that we will otherwise replace them with competent alternative suppliers. however, certain of our suppliers are relatively new providers to us so that our experience with them and their performance is limited. where practical, we intend to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single supplier will adversely affect our business. nevertheless, a prolonged inability to obtain certain components could impair our ability to ship products and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage to our customer relationships. our outsource providers may fail to perform as we expect outsource providers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations and in many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. although we attempt to select reputable providers and secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition, the expansive role of our outsource providers has required and may continue to require us to implement changes to our existing operations and to adopt new procedures to deal with and manage the performance of these outsource providers. any delay or failure in the implementation of our operational changes and new procedures could adversely affect our customer and/or employee relationships, which could have a negative effect on our operating results. once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor equipment for the same product line application. 15 table of contents we face a challenging and complex competitive environment we face significant competition from multiple competitors. other companies continue to develop systems and products that are competitive to ours and may introduce new products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we must devote significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r&amp;d. certain of our competitors, especially those that are created and financially backed by foreign governments, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to increasingly dominate the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. we also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. in addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, competition may intensify, and we may be unable to continue to compete successfully in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. our future success depends heavily on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales accounted for approximately 88% of total revenue in fiscal year 2011, 91% of total revenue in fiscal year 2010, and 85% of total revenue in fiscal year 2009. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenue in future years. we are subject to various challenges related to international sales and the management of global operations including, but not limited to: trade balance issues; global economic and political conditions; changes in currency controls; differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers; compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including u.s. export restrictions; fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business. certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. government. our failure or inability to obtain such licenses would substantially limit our markets and severely restrict our revenues. many of the challenges noted above are applicable in china, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. as the 16 table of contents business volume between china and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among china, taiwan, japan, south korea, and the united states, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions. this would adversely affect our business with china, taiwan, japan, and/or south korea and perhaps the entire asia pacific region. a significant trade disruption in these areas could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations related to certain of our revenues denominated in japanese yen and euros, as well as certain of our spares and service contracts, euro denominated expenses, and expenses related to our non-u.s. sales and support offices that are denominated in the related countries local currency. we currently enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on japanese yen-denominated ( jpy ) revenue and monetary assets and liabilities, euro-denominated ( eur ) expenses and monetary assets and liabilities, as well as monetary assets and liabilities denominated in swiss francs ( chf ) and taiwanese dollars ( twd ). we believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. we expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over- or under-hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities with foreign exchange forward contracts, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. dollar-denominated ( usd ) assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed) and currently we do not enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these other foreign currency exposures. therefore, we are subject to both favorable and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) in other currencies. our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is critical to our success. our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees. this is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, as well as fluctuations in industry economic conditions that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. we periodically evaluate our overall compensation programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. these information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsource providers or third parties such as vendors and contractors. these information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment. confidential information stored on these information systems could be compromised. to the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to mitigate the outlined risks. however, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time, or unauthorized releases of confidential information, could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. 17 table of contents our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws, or by material audit assessments. these factors could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals. we believe that we are generally in compliance with these regulations and that we have obtained (or will obtain or are otherwise addressing the need for) all environmental permits necessary to conduct our business. these permits generally relate to the handling and disposal of hazardous wastes. nevertheless, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, require us to suspend production, or cease operations or cause our customers to not accept our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, to acquire significant additional equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. any failure to comply with regulations governing the use, handling, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. if we choose to acquire or dispose of product lines and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. as a result, we may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies or reducing personnel entail numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, any acquisition could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and/or the price of our common stock. the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital, make acquisitions, or subject our business to additional costs the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control or influence. these factors include but are not limited to the following: general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; 18 table of contents economic or political events and trends occurring globally or in any of our key sales regions; variations in our quarterly operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity; variations in our revenues, earnings or other business and financial metrics from forecasts by us or securities analysts, or from those experienced by other companies in our industry; announcements of restructurings, reductions in force, departure of key employees, and/or consolidations of operations; government regulations; developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; technological innovations and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; commercial success or failure of our new and existing products; disruptions of relationships with key customers or suppliers; or dilutive impacts of our notes and related warrants. in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the actual or anticipated movement in interest rates and the price of and markets for semiconductors. these broad market and industry factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our common stock. intellectual property, indemnity and other claims against us can be costly and we could lose significant rights that are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. from time to time, other parties send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues. we also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships. in addition, our bylaws and indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to lam research. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties. moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles. we may fail to protect our critical proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights and trade secret protection. protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. as part of our strategy to protect our technology we currently hold a number of united states and foreign patents and pending patent applications. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the united states or foreign governments issue to us or these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications. additionally, even when patents are issued, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the united states. the rights granted or anticipated 19 table of contents under any of our patents or pending patent applications may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. any of these circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investments we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. as of june 26, 2011, our mutual funds are classified as trading securities. investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. any material differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities is recognized as other income (expense) in our consolidated statement of operations. all of our other short-term investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. interest rate risk fixed income securities our investments in various interest earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. at any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. we target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 26, 2011 were as follows: valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of june 26, 2011 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x basis points (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 0.00% 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) municipal notes and bonds $ 328,288 $ 325,971 $ 323,655 $ 321,339 $ 319,022 $ 316,706 $ 314,390 us treasury &amp; agencies 8,726 8,650 8,573 8,496 8,419 8,342 8,265 government-sponsored enterprises 20,058 19,994 19,931 19,868 19,805 19,742 19,679 foreign government bond 1,007 1,006 1,005 1,005 1,004 1,003 1,002 corporate notes and bonds 386,126 384,894 383,663 382,432 381,200 379,969 378,737 mortgage backed securities residential 2,676 2,661 2,647 2,633 2,619 2,605 2,591 mortgage backed securities commercial 61,924 61,526 61,127 60,729 60,330 59,931 59,533 total $ 808,805 $ 804,702 $ 800,601 $ 796,502 $ 792,399 $ 788,298 $ 784,197 we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. long-term debt as of june 26, 2011, we had $900 million in principal amount of fixed-rate long-term debt outstanding, with a carrying amount of $722 million. the fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk and other factors due to the convertible feature. generally, the fair value of notes will increase as interest rates fall 39 table of contents and/or our common stock price increases, and decrease as interest rates rise and/or our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of our notes but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. we do not carry the notes at fair value, but present the fair value of the principal amount of our notes for disclosure purposes. as of june 26, 2011 the carrying value of the notes approximates fair value as interest rates on comparable debt have not changed significantly since issuance of the notes. our long-term debt includes $1.2 million of variable rate debt based on libor plus a spread of 0.875% and is subject to adverse as well as beneficial changes in interest expense due to fluctuation in interest rates. equity price risk publicly traded securities the values of our investments in publicly traded securities, including mutual funds related to our obligations under our deferred compensation plans, are subject to market price risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in the price of each security in the portfolio. potential fluctuations in the price of each security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, or 25% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. the hypothetical fair values as of june 26, 2011 were as follows: valuation of securities given an x% decrease in stock price fair value as of june 26, 2011 valuation of securities given an x% increase in stock price (25%) (15%) (10%) 0.00% 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) mutual funds $ 14,601 $ 16,547 $ 17,521 $ 19,467 $ 21,414 $ 22,388 $ 24,334 publicly traded equity securities $ 5,582 $ 6,327 $ 6,699 $ 7,443 $ 8,188 $ 8,560 $ 9,304 total $ 20,183 $ 22,874 $ 24,220 $ 26,910 $ 29,602 $ 30,948 $ 33,638 foreign currency exchange ( fx ) risk we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars except for certain revenues denominated in japanese yen, certain revenues and expenses denominated in the euro, certain spares and service contracts denominated in various currencies, and expenses related to our non-u.s. sales and support offices denominated in the related countries local currency. we currently enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on japanese yen-denominated revenue and monetary asset and liability exposure, euro-denominated expenses and monetary assets and liabilities, as well as monetary assets and liabilities denominated in swiss francs and taiwanese dollars. we currently believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. to protect against the reduction in value of forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenue and euro-denominated expenses, we enter into foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts that generally expire within 12 months, and no later than 24 months. these foreign currency forward exchange rate contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value, with the effective portion of the contracts gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue and/or expense is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of japanese yen, euros, swiss franc and taiwanese dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities against the u.s. dollar. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income (expense), net and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities also recorded in other income (expense), net, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. 40 table of contents the notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges, as of june 26, 2011 are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. notional amount unrealized fx gain/(loss) june 26, 2011 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/ decrease(-) in each fx rate + /-(10%) + /-(15%) (in $ millions) cash flow hedge sell jpy $ 109.0 ($ 1.2 ) $ 10.9 $ 16.3 buy eur $ 105.9 $ 1.7 $ 10.6 $ 15.9 $ 214.9 $ 0.5 $ 21.5 $ 32.2 the notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges, as of june 26, 2011 are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net, by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. notional amount unrealized fx gain/(loss) june 26, 2011 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/ decrease(-) in each fx rate + /-(10%) + /-(15%) (in $ millions) balance sheet hedge sell jpy $ 61.9 $ 0.1 $ 6.2 $ 9.3 buy chf $ 257.5 $ 0.0 $ 25.8 $ 38.6 buy twd $ 82.6 ($ 0.7 ) $ 8.3 $ 12.4 buy eur $ 41.8 $ 0.1 $ 4.2 $ 6.3 $ 443.8 ($ 0.5 ) $ 44.5 $ 66.6risk factors 12 risk factors in addition to the other information in this 2012 form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the company and its business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear. the semiconductor equipment industry is subject to major fluctuations and, as a result, we face risks related to our strategic resource allocation decisions the business cycle in the semiconductor equipment industry has historically been characterized by frequent periods of rapid change in demand that challenge our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, procedures for training and managing our work force, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. if we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of demand decline, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted. we continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment. if we do not adequately adapt to the changing business environment, we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during a period of growth, or we may expand our capacity too rapidly and/or beyond what is appropriate for the actual demand environment. especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes. our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. future declines in the semiconductor industry, and the overall world economic conditions on which it is significantly dependent, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. the semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and experiences periodic downturns. global economic and business conditions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. additionally, in times of economic uncertainty our customers budgets for our products, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. this would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. as a result, economic downturns can cause material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition including, but not limited to: a decline in demand for our products; an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers inability to pay us; an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; a decline in the value of our investments; exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply. 12 table of contents fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers may materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues and operating results. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in research and development ( r&amp;d ) and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our profitability and other financial results. our long-term success, results of operations and the value of our common stock depend on our ability to successfully combine the novellus business with our pre-existing business, which may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected on june 4, 2012, we acquired novellus, and we are currently combining novellus business with our pre-existing business. our future success, results of operations and the value of our common stock depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. to realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully combine our businesses in an efficient and effective manner and communicate the impact that a business combination will have on our financial statements. if we are not able to achieve and clearly communicate these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer than expected to realize, and our results of operations and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. specific issues that must be addressed in integrating the operations of novellus into our pre-existing operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition include, among other things: integrating and optimizing the utilization of the properties, equipment, suppliers, distribution channels, manufacturing, service, marketing, promotion and sales activities and information technologies of the combined company; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures of the combined company; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations of the combined company; retaining and growing business at existing customers and attracting new customers to the combined company; managing our contractual and business relationships with common suppliers and customers to reduce inconsistent or inefficient effects; retaining key employees and utilizing their technical knowledge and business expertise; communicating the inherently complex factors that a business combination will have on our financial position and results of operations; and conforming standards, controls, procedures, policies, business cultures and compensation structures throughout the combined company. in addition, integration efforts will also divert management attention and resources, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. actual synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than what we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. if we are not able to adequately address these challenges, we may be unable to successfully integrate the combined company operations or to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. our quarterly revenues and operating results are unpredictable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a small number of transactions can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include, but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries in general and specifically the semiconductor equipment industry; the size and timing of orders from customers; procurement shortages; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; manufacturing difficulties; customer cancellations or delays in shipments, installations, and/or customer acceptances; the extent that customers continue to purchase and use our products and services in their business; 13 table of contents changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; our ability in a timely manner to develop, introduce and market new, enhanced, and competitive products; our competitors introduction of new products; legal or technical challenges to our products and technology; transportation, communication, demand, information technology or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control such as strikes, acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, and natural disasters; legal, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes (including but not limited to change in import/export regulations) or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing requirements; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and the dilutive impact of our convertible notes and related warrants on our earnings per share. our leverage and debt service obligations and potential note conversion or related hedging activities may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and earnings per share as a result of the sale of our 2016 and 2018 convertible notes and the assumption of the 2041 convertible notes in connection with the novellus acquisition (collectively the notes ), we have a greater amount of debt than we have maintained in the past. our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including: impacting our ability to satisfy our obligations; increasing the portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; and impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. as a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. if we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. conversion of our notes may cause dilution to our shareholders and to our earnings per share. upon conversion of any notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the notes, shares of our common stock, which would result in dilution to our shareholders. this dilution may be mitigated to some extent by the hedging transactions we entered into in connection with the sale of the 2016 and 2018 notes. prior to the maturity of the notes, if the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, u.s. gaap requires that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share. the price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging activity that may develop involving our common stock by holders of the notes. we derive our revenues primarily from a relatively small number of high-priced systems system sales constitute a significant portion of our total revenue. our systems are priced up to approximately $6 million per unit, and our revenues in any given quarter are dependent upon the acceptance of a limited number of systems. as a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significantly adverse impact on our revenues for a given quarter. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments and profitability. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that are difficult to predict. in addition, large customers may be able to negotiate requirements that result in increased costs and/or lower margins for us. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers, so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. as of june 24, 2012, three customers accounted for approximately 24%, 17%, and 11 % of accounts receivable. as of june 26, 2011, three customers accounted for approximately 17%, 14%, and 10% of accounts receivable. variations in the amount of time it takes for our customers to accept our systems may cause fluctuation in our operating results we generally recognize revenue for new system sales on the date of customer acceptance or the date the contractual customer acceptance provisions lapse. as a result, the fiscal period in which we are able to recognize new systems revenues is typically subject to the length of time that our customers require to evaluate the performance of our equipment after shipment and installation, which may vary from customer to customer and tool to tool. such variations could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. 14 table of contents we depend on new products and processes for our success. consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products have reliability, quality, or design problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture new products successfully, or new products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. the expected industry transition to a 450mm platform represents an emerging challenge for our business. our failure to commercialize new products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. in order to develop new products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r&amp;d and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers or other members of the industry. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products. future technologies, processes or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, or obsolete inventory, or both. moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next generation devices. this shift may result in a reduction in the size of lam addressable markets. for example, the adoption of extreme ultraviolet lithography may adversely impact lam served available market. we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products, which we expect will continue to account for a large percentage of our revenues in the near term. continued market acceptance of these products is, therefore, critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products; a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products; export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customer or market segments; an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the market in which we participate; increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines; technological changes that we are unable to address with our products; or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. in addition, the fact that we offer limited product lines creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products as well. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. our business is affected by our customers use of our products in certain steps in their wafer fabrication processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductor chips requires fewer steps using our products, this could have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. strategic alliances and potential customer consolidation may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor manufacturing companies are entering into strategic alliances or consolidating with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies and/or achieve economies of scale. the outcomes of such an alliance can be the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function and/or the standardization of a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment; while the outcomes of consolidation can lead to an overall reduction in the market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment as customers operations achieve economies of scale and/or increased purchasing power based on their higher volumes. while in certain instances this could work to our advantage, if our equipment becomes the basis for the function or process as the tool of choice for the larger consolidated customer or alliance, it could also work to our disadvantage if a competitor tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such functions or processes. similarly, our customers may team with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. these actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results. 15 table of contents we depend on a limited number of key suppliers we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. we have established long-term contracts with many of these suppliers. these long-term contracts can take a variety of forms. we may renew these contracts periodically. in some cases, these suppliers have sold us products for a substantial period of time, and we expect that we and they will continue to renew these contracts in the future or that we will otherwise replace them with competent alternative suppliers. however, certain of our suppliers are relatively new providers to us so that our experience with them and their performance is limited. where practical, we intend to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single supplier will adversely affect our business. nevertheless, a prolonged inability to obtain certain components could impair our ability to ship products and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships. our outsource providers may fail to perform as we expect outsource providers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations and in many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. although we attempt to select reputable providers and secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in addition, the expansive role of our outsource providers has required and may continue to require us to implement changes to our existing operations and to adopt new procedures to deal with and manage the performance of these outsource providers. any delay or failure in the implementation of our operational changes and new procedures could adversely affect our customer and/or employee relationships, which could have a negative effect on our operating results. once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor equipment for the same product line application. we face a challenging and complex competitive environment we face significant competition from multiple competitors. other companies continue to develop systems and products that are competitive to ours and may introduce new products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we must devote significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r&amp;d. certain of our competitors, especially those that are created and financially backed by foreign governments, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to increasingly dominate the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. we also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. in addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, competition may intensify, and we may be unable to continue to compete successfully in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. our future success depends heavily on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales accounted for approximately 83% of total revenue in fiscal year 2012, 88% of total revenue in fiscal year 2011, and 91% of total revenue in fiscal year 2010. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenue in future years. we are subject to various challenges related to international sales and the management of global operations including, but not limited to: trade balance issues; global economic and political conditions, including the ongoing macroeconomic challenges associated with sovereign debt levels in certain euro-zone countries and the financial contagion to global markets; changes in currency controls; 16 table of contents differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers; compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including u.s. export restrictions; fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business. certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. government. our failure or inability to obtain such licenses would substantially limit our markets and severely restrict our revenues. many of the challenges noted above are applicable in china, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. as the business volume between china and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among china, taiwan, japan, south korea, and the united states, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions. this would adversely affect our business with china, taiwan, japan, and/or south korea and perhaps the entire asia pacific region. a significant trade disruption in these areas could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations related to certain of our revenues denominated in japanese yen and euros, as well as certain of our spares and service contracts, euro denominated expenses, and expenses related to our non-u.s. sales and support offices that are denominated in the related countries local currency. we currently enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on japanese yen-denominated ( jpy ) revenue and monetary assets and liabilities, euro-denominated ( eur ) expenses and monetary assets and liabilities, as well as monetary assets and liabilities denominated in swiss francs ( chf ),taiwanese dollars ( twd ), and great british pounds ( gbp ). we believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. we expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over-or under-hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities with foreign currency forward contracts, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. dollar-denominated ( usd ) assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed) and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures. therefore, we are subject to both favorable and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) for these currencies. our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is critical to our success our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees. this is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, as well as fluctuations in industry economic conditions that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. we periodically evaluate our overall compensation programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. these information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsource providers or third parties such as vendors and contractors. these information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment. confidential information stored on these information systems could be compromised. to the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to mitigate the outlined risks. however, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time, or unauthorized releases of confidential information, could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required 17 table of contents to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities. these factors could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals. we believe that we are generally in compliance with these regulations and that we have obtained (or will obtain or are otherwise addressing the need for) all environmental permits necessary to conduct our business. these permits generally relate to the handling and disposal of hazardous wastes. nevertheless, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, require us to suspend production, or cease operations or cause our customers to not accept our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, to acquire significant additional equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. any failure to comply with regulations governing the use, handling, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. if we choose to acquire or dispose of product lines and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. as a result, we may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies or reducing personnel entail numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, any acquisition could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and/or the price of our common stock. the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital, make acquisitions, or subject our business to additional costs the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control or influence. these factors include but are not limited to the following: general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; economic or political events and trends occurring globally or in any of our key sales regions; variations in our quarterly operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity; variations in our revenues, earnings or other business and financial metrics from forecasts by us or securities analysts, or from those experienced by other companies in our industry; announcements of restructurings, reductions in force, departure of key employees, and/or consolidations of operations; government regulations; developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; technological innovations and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; commercial success or failure of our new and existing products; disruptions of relationships with key customers or suppliers; or dilutive impacts of our notes and related warrants. in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the actual or anticipated movement in interest rates and the price of and markets for semiconductors. these broad market and industry factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our common stock. 18 table of contents intellectual property, indemnity and other claims against us can be costly and we could lose significant rights that are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. from time to time, other parties send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues. we also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships. in addition, our bylaws and indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to lam research. from time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters. we have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties. moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles. we may fail to protect our critical proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights and trade secret protection. protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. as part of our strategy to protect our technology we currently hold a number of united states and foreign patents and pending patent applications. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the united states or foreign governments issue to us or these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications. additionally, even when patents are issued, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the united states. the rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents or pending patent applications may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. any of these circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investments we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. as of june 24, 2012, our mutual funds are classified as trading securities. investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. any material differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities is recognized as other income (expense) in our consolidated statement of operations. all of our other short-term investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. interest rate risk fixed income securities our investments in various interest earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. at any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. we target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 24, 2012 were as follows: valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of june 24, 2012 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x basis points (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 0.00% 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) municipal notes and bonds $ 327,596 $ 325,920 $ 324,244 $ 322,567 $ 320,891 $ 319,215 $ 317,539 us treasury &amp; agencies 140,968 139,794 138,620 137,446 136,272 135,098 133,924 government-sponsored enterprises 126,329 125,309 124,289 123,268 122,248 121,228 120,208 foreign government bond 6,582 6,507 6,433 6,358 6,283 6,209 6,134 corporate notes and bonds 781,039 776,993 772,947 768,901 764,856 760,811 756,765 mortgage backed securities - residential 26,797 26,522 26,247 25,972 25,697 25,422 25,147 mortgage backed securities - commercial 86,387 85,875 85,364 84,853 84,341 83,830 83,319 total $ 1,495,698 $ 1,486,920 $ 1,478,144 $ 1,469,365 $ 1,460,588 $ 1,451,813 $ 1,443,036 we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. long-term debt as of june 24, 2012, we had $1.6 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate long-term debt outstanding, with a fair value of $1.7 billion. the fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk and other factors due to the convertible feature. generally, the fair value of notes will increase as interest rates fall and/or our common stock price increases, and decrease as interest rates rise and/or our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of our notes but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. we do not carry the notes at fair value, but present the fair value of the principal amount of our notes for disclosure purposes. equity price risk publicly traded securities the values of our investments in publicly traded securities, including mutual funds related to our obligations under our deferred compensation plans, are subject to market price risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in the price of each security in the portfolio. potential fluctuations in the price of each security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, or 25% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. the hypothetical fair values as of june 24, 2012 were as follows: valuation of securities given an x% decrease in stock price fair value as of june 24, 2012 valuation of securities given an x% increase in stock price (25%) (15%) (10%) 0.00% 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) mutual funds $ 13,316 $ 15,091 $ 15,979 $ 17,754 $ 19,529 $ 20,417 $ 22,193 publicly traded equity securities $ 4,435 $ 5,026 $ 5,322 $ 5,913 $ 6,504 $ 6,800 $ 7,391 total $ 17,751 $ 20,117 $ 21,301 $ 23,667 $ 26,033 $ 27,217 $ 29,584 34 table of contents foreign currency exchange ( fx ) risk we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars except for certain revenues denominated in japanese yen, certain revenues and expenses denominated in the euro, certain spares and service contracts denominated in various currencies, and expenses related to our non-u.s. sales and support offices denominated in the related countries local currency. we currently enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on japanese yen-denominated revenue and monetary asset and liability exposure, euro-denominated expenses and monetary assets and liabilities, as well as monetary assets and liabilities denominated in swiss francs, taiwanese dollars, and great british pounds. we currently believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. to protect against the reduction in value of forecasted japanese yen-denominated revenue and euro-denominated expenses, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts that generally expire within 12 months, and no later than 24 months. these foreign currency forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value, with the effective portion of the contracts gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue and/or expense is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of japanese yen, euros, swiss franc, taiwanese dollar, and great british pound -denominated monetary assets and liabilities against the u.s. dollar. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income (expense), net and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities also recorded in other income (expense), net, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. the notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges, as of june 24, 2012 are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. notional amount unrealized fx gain / (loss) june 24, 2012 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each fx rate + / - (10%) + / - (15%) (in $ millions) cash flow hedge sell jpy $ 98.8 $ 3.3 $ 9.9 $ 14.8 buy eur $ 64.4 $ (3.5 ) $ 6.4 $ 9.7 $ 163.2 $ (0.2 ) $ 16.3 $ 24.5 the notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges, as of june 24, 2012 are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net, by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. notional amount unrealized fx gain / (loss) june 24, 2012 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each fx rate + /- (10%) + /- (15%) (in $ millions) balance sheet hedge sell jpy $ 42.6 $ 0.0 $ 4.3 $ 6.4 buy chf $ 232.9 $ 0.0 $ 23.3 $ 34.9 buy twd $ 86.9 $ 0.0 $ 8.7 $ 13.0 buy eur $ 11.8 $ 0.0 $ 1.2 $ 1.8 buy gbp $ 4.5 $ 0.0 $ 0.4 $ 0.7 $ 378.7 $ 0.0 $ 37.9 $ 56.8risk factors 14 risk factors in addition to the other information in this 2013 form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the company and its business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear. 14 table of contents the semiconductor equipment industry is subject to major fluctuations and, as a result, we face risks related to our strategic resource allocation decisions the business cycle in the semiconductor equipment industry has historically been characterized by frequent periods of rapid change in demand that challenge our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, procedures for training and managing our work force, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. if we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of demand decline, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted. we continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment. if we do not adequately adapt to the changing business environment, we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during a period of growth, or we may expand our capacity too rapidly and/or beyond what is appropriate for the actual demand environment. especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes. our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. future declines in the semiconductor industry, and the overall world economic conditions on which it is significantly dependent, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. the semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and experiences periodic downturns. global economic and business conditions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. additionally, in times of economic uncertainty our customers budgets for our products, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. this would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. as a result, economic downturns can cause material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition including, but not limited to: a decline in demand for our products or services; an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers inability to pay us; an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; a decline in the value of our investments; exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply. 15 table of contents fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers may materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues and operating results. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in research and development ( r&amp;d ) and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our profitability and other financial results. our long-term success, results of operations and the value of our common stock depend on our ability to successfully combine the novellus business with our pre-existing business, which may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected on june 4, 2012, we acquired novellus, and we are currently combining novellus business with our pre-existing business. our future success, results of operations and the value of our common stock depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. to realize these anticipated benefits, we must successfully combine our businesses in an efficient and effective manner and communicate the impact that a business combination will have on our financial statements. if we are not able to achieve and clearly communicate these objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer than expected to realize, and our results of operations and the value of our common stock may be adversely affected. specific issues that must be addressed in integrating the operations of novellus into our pre-existing operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition include, among other things: integrating and optimizing the utilization of the properties, equipment, suppliers, distribution channels, manufacturing, service, marketing, promotion and sales activities and information technologies of the combined company; consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures of the combined company; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations of the combined company; retaining and growing business at existing customers and attracting new customers to the combined company; managing our contractual and business relationships with common suppliers and customers to reduce inconsistent or inefficient effects; retaining key employees and utilizing their technical knowledge and business expertise; communicating the inherently complex factors that a business combination will have on our financial position and results of operations; and conforming standards, controls, procedures, policies, business cultures and compensation structures throughout the combined company. in addition, integration efforts will also divert management attention and resources, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, and the anticipated benefits of the integration plan may not be realized. actual synergies, if achieved at all, may be lower than what we expect and may take longer to achieve than anticipated. if we are not able to adequately address these challenges, we may be unable to successfully integrate the combined company operations or to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. our quarterly revenues and operating results are unpredictable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain 16 table of contents amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a small number of transactions can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include, but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries in general and specifically the semiconductor equipment industry; the size and timing of orders from customers; procurement shortages; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; manufacturing difficulties; customer cancellations or delays in shipments, installations, and/or customer acceptances; the extent that customers continue to purchase and use our products and services in their business; changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; our ability in a timely manner to develop, introduce and market new, enhanced, and competitive products; our competitors introduction of new products; legal or technical challenges to our products and technology; transportation, communication, demand, information technology or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control such as strikes, acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, and natural disasters; legal, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes (including but not limited to change in import/export regulations) or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing requirements; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and the dilutive impact of our convertible notes and related warrants on our earnings per share. our leverage and debt service obligations and potential note conversion or related hedging activities may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and earnings per share as a result of the sale of our 2016 and 2018 convertible notes and the assumption of the 2041 convertible notes in connection with the novellus acquisition (collectively the notes ), we have a greater amount of debt than we have maintained in the past. our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including: impacting our ability to satisfy our obligations; increasing the portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; and impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. as a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. if we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it 17 table of contents on acceptable terms. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. conversion of our notes may cause dilution to our shareholders and to our earnings per share. upon conversion of any notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the notes, shares of our common stock, which would result in dilution to our shareholders. this dilution may be mitigated to some extent by the hedging transactions we entered into in connection with the sale of the 2016 and 2018 notes. prior to the maturity of the notes, if the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, u.s. gaap requires that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share. the price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging activity that may develop involving our common stock by holders of the notes. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments and profitability. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that are difficult to predict. in addition, large customers may be able to negotiate requirements that result in decreased pricing, increased costs and/or lower margins for us, such as regional manufacturing expectations, compliance to specific environmental, social and corporate governance standards, and limitations on our ability to share jointly developed technology with others. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers, so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. as of june 30, 2013, two customers accounted for approximately 22% and 14% of accounts receivable. as of june 24, 2012, three customers accounted for approximately 24%, 17%, and 11% of accounts receivable. we depend on new products and processes for our success. consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products have reliability, quality, or design problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture new products successfully, or new products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. the expected industry transition to a 450mm platform represents an emerging challenge for our business, and our failure to address that transition in a timely manner with productive and cost-effective products could adversely affect our business in a material way. our failure to commercialize new products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. in order to develop new products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r&amp;d and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers or other members of the industry. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products and certain jointly developed technologies may be subject to restrictions on our ability to share that technology with other customers, which could limit our market for products incorporating those technologies. future technologies, processes or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, or obsolete inventory, or both. moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next generation devices. this shift may result in a reduction in the size of our addressable 18 table of contents markets or could increase the relative size of markets in which we either do not compete or have relatively low market share. we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products. system sales constitute a significant portion of our total revenue. our systems are priced up to approximately $9 million per unit, and our revenues in any given quarter are dependent upon the acceptance of a limited number of systems. as a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significantly adverse impact on our revenues for a given quarter, and, in the longer term, the continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products; a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products; export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customer or market segments; an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the market in which we participate; increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines; technological changes that we are unable to address with our products; or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. in addition, the fact that we offer limited product lines creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products as well. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. our business is affected by our customers use of our products in certain steps in their wafer fabrication processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductors requires fewer steps using our products, this could have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. strategic alliances and potential customer consolidation may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor manufacturing companies are entering into strategic alliances or consolidating with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies and/or achieve economies of scale. the outcomes of such an alliance can be the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function and/or the standardization of a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment; while the outcomes of consolidation can lead to an overall reduction in the market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment as customers operations achieve economies of scale and/or increased purchasing power based on their higher volumes. while in certain instances this could work to our advantage, if our equipment becomes the basis for the function or process as the tool of choice for the larger consolidated customer or alliance, it could also work to our disadvantage if a competitor tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such functions or processes. similarly, our customers may team with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. even if they select lam equipment, the institutions and the customers that follow their lead could impose conditions on acceptance of that equipment, such as adherence to standards and requirements or limitations on how we license our proprietary rights, that increase our costs or require us to take on greater risk. these actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results. 19 table of contents we depend on a limited number of key suppliers and outsource providers, and we run the risk that they might not perform as we expect outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations and in many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. these providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us or suffer force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect. although we attempt to select reputable providers and suppliers, and we attempt to secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers or suppliers could fail to perform as we expect, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances. there is therefore a risk that a prolonged inability to obtain certain components or secure key services could impair our ability to manage operations, ship products and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships. we face risks related to the disruption of our primary manufacturing facilities our manufacturing facilities are concentrated in just a few locations. these locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons such as natural disasters, terrorist attacks, disruptions of our information technology resources and utility interruptions. such disruptions may cause delays in shipping our products which could result in the loss of business or customer trust, adversely affecting our business and operating results. once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor equipment for the same product line application. we face a challenging and complex competitive environment we face significant competition from multiple competitors. other companies continue to develop systems and products that are competitive to ours and may introduce new products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we must devote significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r&amp;d. certain of our competitors, especially those that are created and financially backed by foreign governments, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to increasingly dominate the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give 20 table of contents away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. we also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. in addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, competition may intensify, and we may be unable to continue to compete successfully in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. our future success depends heavily on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales accounted for approximately 80% of total revenue in fiscal year 2013, 83% of total revenue in fiscal year 2012, and 88% of total revenue in fiscal year 2011. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue in future years. we are subject to various challenges related to international sales and the management of global operations including, but not limited to: trade balance issues; global economic and political conditions, including the ongoing macroeconomic challenges associated with sovereign debt levels in certain euro-zone countries and the financial contagion to global markets; changes in currency controls; differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers; compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including u.s. and international export restrictions and foreign labor laws; fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to repatriate cash in a tax-efficient manner; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business. certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. government. our failure or inability to obtain such licenses would substantially limit our markets and severely restrict our revenues. many of the challenges noted above are applicable in china, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. as the business volume between china and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among china, taiwan, japan, south korea, and the united states, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions. this would adversely affect our business with china, taiwan, japan, and/or south korea and perhaps the entire asia pacific region. a significant trade disruption in these areas could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. 21 table of contents we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro. currently, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third party accounts receivables, accounts payables and intercompany receivables and payables. in addition, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated expenses. we believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. we expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over-or under-hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities with foreign currency forward contracts, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed) and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures. therefore, we are subject to both favorable and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) for these currencies. the magnitude of our overseas business also affects where our cash is generated. certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases or the repayment of our convertible notes, can usually only be made with cash balances and cash generated on-shore. since the majority of our cash is generated outside of the united states, this may limit certain business decisions and adversely affect business outcomes. our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is critical to our success our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees. this is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, as well as fluctuations in industry economic conditions that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. we periodically evaluate our overall compensation programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. these information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsource providers or third parties such as vendors and contractors. these information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment. confidential information stored on these information systems could be compromised. to the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to mitigate the outlined risks. however, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time, or unauthorized releases of confidential information, could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. 22 table of contents in addition, we have recently merged our global enterprise system with the enterprise system used by novellus systems, inc. prior to its acquisition by lam. combining these two systems was a complex process and there is possibility for error in the merger process. while we have exerted considerable efforts to ensure a fully operational system, should an error occur there could be a short term adverse effect on our ability to conduct business in an efficient manner. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities. these factors could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals. we believe that we are generally in compliance with these regulations and that we have obtained (or will obtain or are otherwise addressing the need for) all environmental permits necessary to conduct our business. these permits generally relate to the handling and disposal of hazardous wastes. nevertheless, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, require us to suspend production, or cease operations or cause our customers to not accept our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, to acquire significant additional equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. any failure to comply with regulations governing the use, handling, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. if we choose to acquire or dispose of product lines and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. as a result, we may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies or reducing personnel entail numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, adverse customer reaction to our decision to cease support for a product, and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, any acquisition could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and 23 table of contents goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and/or the price of our common stock. the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital, make acquisitions, or subject our business to additional costs the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control or influence. these factors include but are not limited to the following: general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; economic or political events and trends occurring globally or in any of our key sales regions; variations in our quarterly operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity; variations in our revenues, earnings or other business and financial metrics from forecasts by us or securities analysts, or from those experienced by other companies in our industry; announcements of restructurings, reductions in force, departure of key employees, and/or consolidations of operations; government regulations; developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; technological innovations and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; commercial success or failure of our new and existing products; disruptions of relationships with key customers or suppliers; or dilutive impacts of our notes and related warrants. in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the actual or anticipated movement in interest rates and the price of and markets for semiconductors. these broad market and industry factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our common stock. intellectual property, indemnity and other claims against us can be costly and we could lose significant rights that are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. from time to time, other parties send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues. we also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships. in addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to lam research. from time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters. we have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third party claims that our products when used for their intended 24 table of contents purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties. moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles. we may fail to protect our critical proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights and trade secret protection. protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. as part of our strategy to protect our technology we currently hold a number of united states and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes and techniques as trade secrets. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the united states or foreign governments issue to us, these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications, or we may lose trade secret protection over valuable information due to the actions or omissions of third parties or even our own employees. additionally, even when patents are issued or trade secret processes are followed, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the united states. the rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents, pending patent applications or trade secrets may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. any of these circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our business. we may incur impairments to goodwill or long lived assets we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business segments, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. if, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. we operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating result and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill one or more of our business segments, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations. we are exposed to various risks from our regulatory environment we are subject to various risks related to (i) new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries that we operate; (ii) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; and (iii) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and regulations. as a public company with global operations, 25 table of contents we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, anti-corruption, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and antitrust regulations, among others. one of these laws imposes new disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, which may have originated from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries in our products. this new requirement could affect the pricing, sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of components we use in our products. in addition, there will be additional costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any of the covered minerals used in our products. our supply chain is complex, and we may be unable to verify the origins for all metals used in our products. financial reform legislation and the regulations enacted under such legislation have also added costs to our business by, among other things, requiring advisory votes on executive compensation and on severance packages upon a change in control. to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all evolving standards. changes in or ambiguous interpretations of laws, regulations and standards may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. efforts to comply with new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. if we are found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance with the laws and regulations, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investments we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. as of june 30, 2013, our mutual funds are classified as trading securities. investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. any material differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities is recognized as other income (expense) in our consolidated statement of operations. all of our other short-term investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. 46 table of contents interest rate risk fixed income securities our investments in various interest earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. at any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. we target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our capital by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and concentration risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 30, 2013 were as follows: valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of june 30, 2013 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x basis points (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 0.00% 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) municipal notes and bonds $ 273,239 $ 271,741 $ 270,243 $ 268,746 $ 267,248 $ 265,750 $ 264,252 us treasury &amp; agencies 159,745 158,261 156,778 155,293 153,811 152,327 150,843 government-sponsored enterprises 55,937 55,560 55,182 54,805 54,427 54,049 53,671 foreign government bond 25,450 25,291 25,131 24,972 24,813 24,654 24,495 corporate notes and bonds 874,596 869,895 865,194 860,492 855,790 851,089 846,388 mortgage backed securities - residential 28,544 28,151 27,758 27,365 26,972 26,579 26,186 mortgage backed securities - commercial 110,105 109,389 108,673 107,958 107,241 106,525 105,809 total $ 1,527,616 $ 1,518,288 $ 1,508,959 $ 1,499,631 $ 1,490,302 $ 1,480,973 $ 1,471,644 we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. long-term debt as of june 30, 2013, we had $1.6 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate long-term debt outstanding, with a fair value of $2.0 billion. the fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk and other factors due to the convertible feature. generally, the fair value of notes will increase as interest rates fall and/or our common stock price increases, and decrease as interest rates rise and/or our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of our notes but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. we do not carry the notes at fair value, but present the fair value of the principal amount of our notes for disclosure purposes. 47 table of contents equity price risk publicly traded securities the values of our investments in publicly traded securities, including mutual funds related to our obligations under our deferred compensation plans, are subject to market price risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in the price of each security in the portfolio. potential fluctuations in the price of each security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, or 25% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. the hypothetical fair values as of june 30, 2013 were as follows: valuation of securities given an x% decrease in stock price fair value as of june 30, 2013 valuation of securities given an x% increase in stock price (25%) (15%) (10%) 0.00% 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) mutual funds $ 13,662 $ 15,484 $ 16,394 $ 18,216 $ 20,038 $ 20,948 $ 22,770 publicly traded equity securities $ 5,322 $ 6,032 $ 6,386 $ 7,096 $ 7,806 $ 8,160 $ 8,870 total $ 18,984 $ 21,515 $ 22,781 $ 25,312 $ 27,843 $ 29,109 $ 31,640 foreign currency exchange ( fx ) risk we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated expenses. currently, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third party accounts receivables, accounts payables and intercompany receivables and payables. in addition, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily on japanese yen-denominated revenues and euro-denominated expenses. we currently believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. to protect against the reduction in value of anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen-and euro-denominated expenses, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts that generally expire within 12 months, and no later than 24 months. these foreign currency forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value, with the effective portion of the contracts gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue and/or expense is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of certain non-u.s.-dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third party accounts receivables, accounts payables and intercompany receivables and payables. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income (expense), net and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities also recorded in other income (expense), net, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances.the notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges, as of june 30, 2013 are shown in the 48 table of contents table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. notional amount unrealized fx gain / (loss) june 30, 2013 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each fx rate + / - (10%) + / - (15%) (in $ millions) cash flow hedge sell japanese yen $ 137.3 $ 1.5 $ 13.6 $ 20.3 buy euro $ 59.9 $ 1.8 $ 6.1 $ 9.2 $ 3.3 $ 19.7 $ 29.5 the notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges, as of june 30, 2013 are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net, by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. notional amount unrealized fx gain / (loss) june 30, 2013 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each fx rate + / - (10%) + / - (15%) (in $ millions) balance sheet hedge sell japanese yen $ 97.4 $ 0.0 $ 9.7 $ 14.6 sell euro $ 0.8 $ 0.0 $ 0.1 $ 0.1 buy korean won $ 14.1 $ 0.0 $ 1.4 $ 2.1 buy taiwan dollar $ 120.6 $ (0.5 ) $ 12.0 $ 18.1 buy swiss francs $ 17.1 $ 0.0 $ 1.7 $ 2.6 $ (0.5 ) $ 24.9 $ 37.5risk factors 14 risk factors in addition to the other information in this 2014 form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the company and its business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear. the semiconductor equipment industry is subject to fluctuations and, as a result, we face risks related to our strategic resource allocation decisions the business cycle in the semiconductor equipment industry has historically been characterized by frequent periods of rapid change in demand that challenge our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, procedures for training and managing our work force, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure, work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. if we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of demand decline, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted. 14 table of contents we continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment. if we do not adequately adapt to the changing business environment, we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during a period of growth, or we may expand our capacity too rapidly and/or beyond what is appropriate for the actual demand environment. especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes. our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. future declines in the semiconductor industry, and the overall world economic conditions on which it is significantly dependent, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for integrated circuits. the semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and experiences periodic downturns. global economic and business conditions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. additionally, in times of economic uncertainty our customers budgets for our products, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. this would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. as a result, economic downturns can cause material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition including, but not limited to: a decline in demand for our products or services; an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers inability to pay us; an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; a decline in the value of our investments; exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply. fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers may materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues, operating results and earnings. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in r&amp;d and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our profitability and other financial results. our quarterly revenues and operating results are variable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of 15 table of contents future revenues. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a small number of transactions can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include, but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries in general and specifically the semiconductor equipment industry; the size and timing of orders from customers; procurement shortages; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; manufacturing difficulties; customer cancellations or delays in shipments, installations, and/or customer acceptances; the extent that customers continue to purchase and use our products and services in their business; our customers reuse of existing and installed products, to the extent that such reuse decreases their need to purchase new products or services; changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; our ability in a timely manner to develop, introduce and market new, enhanced, and competitive products; our competitors introduction of new products; legal or technical challenges to our products and technology; transportation, communication, demand, information technology or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control such as strikes, acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, and natural disasters; legal, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes (including but not limited to change in import/export regulations) or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing requirements; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and the dilutive impact of our convertible notes and related warrants on our earnings per share. we may incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business segments, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. if, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations. our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. we operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating result and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill one or more of our business segments, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations. as a result of historical performance and 16 table of contents growth potential, our single-wafer clean systems reporting unit may be at greater risk for goodwill impairment than our other reporting units if our actual results for this reporting unit differ from our projections. our leverage and debt service obligations and potential note conversion or related hedging activities may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and earnings per share as a result of the sale of our 2016 and 2018 convertible notes and the assumption of the 2041 convertible notes in connection with our acquisition of novellus systems, inc. (collectively the notes ), we have a greater amount of debt than we have maintained in the past. our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including: impacting our ability to satisfy our obligations; increasing the portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; and impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. as a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. if we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. conversion of our notes may cause dilution to our shareholders and to our earnings per share. upon conversion of any notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the notes, shares of our common stock, which would result in dilution to our shareholders. this dilution may be mitigated to some extent by the hedging transactions we entered into in connection with the sale of the 2016 and 2018 notes or through share repurchases. prior to the maturity of the notes, if the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share. the price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and also by hedging activity that may develop involving our common stock by holders of the notes. our credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. we may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, or obtain additional financing, because our debt agreements contain, and any of our other future similar agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees; create liens; enter into transactions with our affiliates; sell certain assets; and merge or consolidate with any person. our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. in addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the notes or our other debt, which could 17 table of contents permit the holders to accelerate such debt. if any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments, cash flows, collections and profitability. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that are difficult to predict. in addition, large customers may be able to negotiate requirements that result in decreased pricing; increased costs and/or lower margins for us; compliance to specific environmental, social and corporate governance standards; and limitations on our ability to share jointly developed technology with others. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers, so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. we depend on new products and processes for our success. consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products have reliability, quality, or design problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture new products successfully, or new products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. the expected industry transition to a 450mm platform represents an emerging challenge for our business, and our failure to address that transition in a timely manner with productive and cost-effective products could adversely affect our business in a material way. our failure to commercialize new products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. in order to develop new products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r&amp;d and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers or other members of the industry. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products and certain jointly developed technologies may be subject to restrictions on our ability to share that technology with other customers, which could limit our market for products incorporating those technologies. future technologies, processes or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, or obsolete inventory, or both. moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next generation devices. this shift may result in a reduction in the size of our addressable markets or could increase the relative size of markets in which we either do not compete or have relatively low market share. we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products. system sales constitute a significant portion of our total revenue. our systems are priced up to approximately $9 million per system, and our revenues in any given quarter are dependent upon customer acceptance of a limited number of systems. as a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significantly adverse impact on our revenues for a given quarter, and, in the longer term, the continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products; 18 table of contents a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products; export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customer or market segments; an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the market in which we participate; increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines; technological changes that we are unable to address with our products; or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. in addition, the fact that we offer limited product lines creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. our business is affected by our customers use of our products in certain steps in their wafer fabrication processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductors requires fewer steps using our products, this could have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. strategic alliances and customer consolidation may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor manufacturing companies are entering into strategic alliances or consolidating with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies and/or achieve economies of scale. the outcomes of such an alliance can be the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function and/or the standardization of a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment; while the outcomes of consolidation can lead to an overall reduction in the market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment as customers operations achieve economies of scale and/or increased purchasing power based on their higher volumes. in certain instances this could work to our disadvantage if a competitor tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such functions or processes. some semiconductor manufacturing companies are also consolidating. additional outcomes of such consolidation may include our customers: (i) re-evaluating their future supplier relationships to consider other competitors products and/or (ii) gaining additional influence over the pricing of products and the control of intellectual property. similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. even if they select our equipment, the institutions and the customers that follow their lead could impose conditions on acceptance of that equipment, such as adherence to standards and requirements or limitations on how we license our proprietary rights that increase our costs or require us to take on greater risk. these actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results. we depend on a limited number of key suppliers and outsource providers, and we run the risk that they might not perform as we expect outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations and in many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. these providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us or suffer force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect. although we attempt to select reputable providers and suppliers, and we attempt to secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers or suppliers could fail 19 table of contents to perform as we expect, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances. there is therefore a risk that a prolonged inability to obtain certain components or secure key services could impair our ability to manage operations, ship products and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships. we face risks related to the disruption of our primary manufacturing facilities our manufacturing facilities are concentrated in just a few locations. these locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons such as natural disasters, terrorist attacks, disruptions of our information technology resources and utility interruptions. such disruptions may cause delays in shipping our products which could result in the loss of business or customer trust, adversely affecting our business and operating results. once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor equipment for the same product line application. we face a challenging and complex competitive environment we face significant competition from multiple competitors and with the pending merger of two of our largest competitors we may face increasing competitive pressures. other companies continue to develop systems and products that are competitive to ours and may introduce new products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we must devote significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r&amp;d. certain of our competitors, including those that are created and financially backed by foreign governments, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to offer customers a more comprehensive array of products and to therefore increasingly dominate the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. we also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. in addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, competition may intensify, and we may be unable to continue to compete successfully in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. 20 table of contents our future success depends heavily on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales accounted for approximately 86% of total revenue in fiscal 2014, 80% of total revenue in fiscal year 2013, and 83% of total revenue in fiscal year 2012. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue in future years. we are subject to various challenges related to international sales and the management of global operations including, but not limited to: trade balance issues; global economic and political conditions; changes in currency controls; differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers; compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations, including u.s. and international export restrictions and foreign labor laws; fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to repatriate cash in a tax-efficient manner; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business. certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. government. our failure or inability to obtain such licenses would substantially limit our markets and severely restrict our revenues. many of the challenges noted above are applicable in china, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. as the business volume between china and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among china, taiwan, japan, south korea, and the united states, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions. this would adversely affect our business with china, taiwan, japan, and/or south korea and perhaps the entire asia pacific region. a significant trade disruption in these areas could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro. currently, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities; primarily third party accounts receivables, accounts payables and intercompany receivables and payables. in addition, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated expenses. we believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. we expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over-or under-hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities with foreign currency forward contracts, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. dollar-denominated monetary 21 table of contents assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed) and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures. therefore, we are subject to both favorable and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) for these currencies. the magnitude of our overseas business also affects where our cash is generated. certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases or the repayment of our convertible notes, can usually only be made with cash balances and cash generated on-shore. since the majority of our cash is generated outside of the united states, this may limit certain business decisions and adversely affect business outcomes. our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is critical to our success our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees. this is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, as well as fluctuations in industry economic conditions that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. we periodically evaluate our overall compensation programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. these information systems may be owned and maintained by us, our outsourced providers or third parties such as vendors and contractors. many of these outsourced service providers, including certain hosted software applications that we use for confidential data storage, employ cloud computing technology for such storage (which refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which data is not stored within the user physical infrastructure but instead are delivered to and consumed by the user as an internet-based service). all of these information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment. confidential and/or sensitive information stored on these information systems could be intentionally or unintentionally compromised, lost and/or stolen. while we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to mitigate the outlined risks with respect to information systems that are under our control, they cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time, or unauthorized releases of confidential information, could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities. these factors could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. 22 table of contents a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals. we believe that we are generally in compliance with these regulations and that we have obtained (or will obtain or are otherwise addressing the need for) all environmental permits necessary to conduct our business. these permits generally relate to the handling and disposal of hazardous wastes. nevertheless, the failure to comply with present or future regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, require us to suspend production, or cease operations or cause our customers to not accept our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, to acquire significant additional equipment or to incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations. any failure to comply with regulations governing the use, handling, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities. if we choose to acquire or dispose of businesses, product lines and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. as a result, we may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies or reducing personnel entail numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, adverse customer reaction to our decision to cease support for a product, and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, any acquisition could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and/or the price of our common stock. the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital, make acquisitions, or subject our business to additional costs the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control or influence. these factors include but are not limited to the following: general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; economic or political events and trends occurring globally or in any of our key sales regions; variations in our quarterly operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity; variations in our revenues, earnings or other business and financial metrics from forecasts by us or securities analysts, or from those experienced by other companies in our industry; announcements of restructurings, reductions in force, departure of key employees, and/or consolidations of operations; government regulations; 23 table of contents developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; technological innovations and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; commercial success or failure of our new and existing products; disruptions of relationships with key customers or suppliers; or dilutive impacts of our notes and related warrants. in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors. these and other factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our common stock. intellectual property, indemnity and other claims against us can be costly and we could lose significant rights that are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. from time to time, other parties send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues. we also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships. in addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to us. from time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters. we have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or covenants, other third party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties. moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles. we may fail to protect our critical proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights and trade secret protection. protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. as part of our strategy to protect our technology we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes and techniques as trade secrets. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the united states or foreign governments issue to us, these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications, or we may lose trade secret protection over valuable information due to the intentional or unintentional actions or omissions of third parties, of ours or even our own employees. additionally, intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and even when patents are issued or trade secret processes are followed, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we 24 table of contents do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the united states. the rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents, pending patent applications or trade secrets may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. moreover, because we determine the jurisdictions in which to file patents at the time of filing, we may not have adequate protection in the future based on such previous decisions. any of these circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our business. we are exposed to various risks from our regulatory environment we are subject to various risks related to (i) new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries that we operate; (ii) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; and (iii) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and regulations. as a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, anti-corruption, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and antitrust regulations, among others. one of these laws imposes new disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals, which may have originated from the democratic republic of the congo and adjoining countries in our products. this new requirement could affect the pricing, sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of components we use in our products. in addition, there will be additional costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any of the covered minerals used in our products. our supply chain is complex, and we may be unable to verify the origins for all metals used in our products. financial reform legislation and the regulations enacted under such legislation have also added costs to our business by, among other things, requiring advisory votes on executive compensation and on severance packages upon a change in control. to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all evolving standards. changes in or ambiguous interpretations of laws, regulations and standards may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. efforts to comply with new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. if we are found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance with the laws and regulations, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase our shares at all or in any particular amounts. our board of directors announced its plans to declare a quarterly dividend on april 29, 2014, with the first dividend payment paid on july 2, 2014. in addition, on april 29, 2014, we announced that our board of directors has authorized the company to repurchase up to $850 million of common stock, which includes the remaining value available under the prior authorization of $250 million. our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and, in the case of dividends, periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; and changes to our business model. our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. a reduction or suspension in our dividend payments or share repurchase activity could have a negative effect on our stock price. 25 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investments we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. as of june 29, 2014, our mutual funds are classified as trading securities. investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. any material differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities is recognized as other income (expense) in our consolidated statement of operations. all of our other short-term investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. interest rate risk fixed income securities our investments in various interest earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. at any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. we target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our capital by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and concentration risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 29, 2014 were as follows: valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of june 29, 2014 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x basis points (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 0.00% 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) municipal notes and bonds $ 336,959 $ 336,951 $ 336,716 $ 335,433 $ 333,555 $ 331,677 $ 329,799 us treasury &amp; agencies 214,385 214,373 214,018 212,587 210,783 208,980 207,177 government-sponsored enterprises 27,894 27,894 27,850 27,692 27,503 27,315 27,126 foreign government bond 35,928 35,925 35,764 35,467 35,159 34,852 34,546 corporate notes and bonds 1,019,017 1,018,062 1,014,386 1,008,788 1,003,035 997,284 991,533 mortgage backed securities - residential 27,603 27,421 27,189 26,944 26,703 26,460 26,216 mortgage backed securities - commercial 113,661 113,210 112,585 111,933 111,281 110,629 109,977 total $ 1,775,447 $ 1,773,836 $ 1,768,508 $ 1,758,844 $ 1,748,019 $ 1,737,197 $ 1,726,374 45 table of contents we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. long-term debt as of june 29, 2014, we had $1.6 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate long-term debt outstanding, with a fair value of $2.6 billion. the fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk and other factors due to the convertible feature. generally, the fair value of notes will increase as interest rates fall and/or our common stock price increases, and decrease as interest rates rise and/or our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of our notes but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. we do not carry the notes at fair value, but present the fair value of the principal amount of our notes for disclosure purposes. equity price risk publicly traded securities the values of our investments in publicly traded securities, including mutual funds related to our obligations under our deferred compensation plans, are subject to market price risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded securities that would result from potential decreases and increases in the price of each security in the portfolio. potential fluctuations in the price of each security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, or 25% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. the hypothetical fair values as of june 29, 2014 were as follows: valuation of securities given an x% decrease in stock price fair value as of june 29, 2014 valuation of securities given an x% increase in stock price (25%) (15%) (10%) 0.00% 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) mutual funds $ 16,319 $ 18,494 $ 19,582 $ 21,758 $ 23,934 $ 25,022 $ 27,198 foreign currency exchange ( fx ) risk we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated expenses. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third party accounts receivables, accounts payables and intercompany receivables and payables. in addition, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily on japanese yen-denominated revenues and euro-denominated expenses. to protect against the reduction in value of anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen-and euro-denominated expenses, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts that generally expire within 12 months, and no later than 24 months. these foreign currency forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value, with the effective portion of the contracts gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue and/or expense is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of certain non-u.s.-dollar denominated monetary assets and 46 table of contents liabilities, primarily third party accounts receivables, accounts payables and intercompany receivables and payables. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income (expense), net and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities also recorded in other income (expense), net, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. the notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges, as of june 29, 2014 are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. notional amount unrealized fx gain / (loss) june 29, 2014 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each fx rate + / - (10%) + / - (15%) (in $ millions) cash flow hedge sell japanese yen $ 98.5 $ 0.5 $ 9.8 $ 14.7 buy euro 93.9 (0.6 ) 9.3 14.0 ($ 0.1 ) $ 19.1 $ 28.7 the notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges, as of june 29, 2014 are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net, by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. notional amount unrealized fx gain / (loss) june 29, 2014 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each fx rate + / - (10%) + / - (15%) (in $ millions) balance sheet hedge sell japanese yen $ 30.3 $ 0.0 $ 3.0 $ 4.6 buy korean won 19.5 0.0 2.0 2.9 buy swiss francs 7.0 0.0 0.7 1.1 buy taiwan dollar 32.9 (0.5 ) 3.3 5.0 buy euro 0.5 0.0 0.1 0.1 ($ 0.5 ) $ 9.1 $ 13.7risk factors 13 risk factors in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k ( 2015 form 10-k ), the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating the company and its business because such factors may significantly impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. as a result of these risk factors, as well as other risks discussed in our other sec filings, our actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. no priority or significance is intended, nor should be attached, to the order in which the risk factors appear. the semiconductor capital equipment industry is subject to variability and, as a result, we face risks related to our strategic resource allocation decisions despite the recent reduction in cyclicality, the semiconductor capital equipment industry has historically been characterized by rapid changes in demand. the industry environment has moved toward an environment more characterized by variability across segments and customers accentuated by consolidation within the industry. variability in our customers business plans may lead to changes in demand for our equipment and services which could negatively impact our results. the variability in our customers investments during any particular period is dependent on several factors including but not limited to electronics demand, economic conditions (both general and in the semiconductor and electronics industries), industry supply and demand, prices for semiconductors, and our customers ability to develop and manufacture increasingly complex and costly semiconductor devices. the changes in demand may require our management to adjust spending and other resources allocated to operating activities. during periods of rapid growth or decline in demand for our products and services, we face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, management processes, information systems, procedures for training and managing our work force, and in appropriately sizing our supply chain infrastructure, 13 table of contents work force, and other components of our business on a timely basis. if we do not adequately meet these challenges during periods of demand decline, our gross margins and earnings may be negatively impacted. we continuously reassess our strategic resource allocation choices in response to the changing business environment. if we do not adequately adapt to the changing business environment, we may lack the infrastructure and resources to scale up our business to meet customer expectations and compete successfully during a period of growth, or we may expand our capacity too rapidly and/or beyond what is appropriate for the actual demand environment. especially during transitional periods, resource allocation decisions can have a significant impact on our future performance, particularly if we have not accurately anticipated industry changes. our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. future declines in the semiconductor industry, and the overall world economic conditions on which it is significantly dependent, could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition our business depends on the capital equipment expenditures of semiconductor manufacturers, which in turn depend on the current and anticipated market demand for ics. with the consolidation of customers within the industry the semiconductor capital equipment market may experience rapid changes in demand driven both by changes in the market generally and the plans and requirements of particular customers. global economic and business conditions, which are often unpredictable, have historically impacted customer demand for our products and normal commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers, and creditors. additionally, in times of economic uncertainty our customers budgets for our products, or their ability to access credit to purchase them, could be adversely affected. this would limit their ability to purchase our products and services. as a result, economic downturns can cause material adverse changes to our results of operations and financial condition including, but not limited to: a decline in demand for our products or services; an increase in reserves on accounts receivable due to our customers inability to pay us; an increase in reserves on inventory balances due to excess or obsolete inventory as a result of our inability to sell such inventory; valuation allowances on deferred tax assets; restructuring charges; asset impairments including the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets; a decline in the value of our investments; exposure to claims from our suppliers for payment on inventory that is ordered in anticipation of customer purchases that do not come to fruition; a decline in the value of certain facilities we lease to less than our residual value guarantee with the lessor; and challenges maintaining reliable and uninterrupted sources of supply. fluctuating levels of investment by semiconductor manufacturers may materially affect our aggregate shipments, revenues, operating results, and earnings. where appropriate, we will attempt to respond to these fluctuations with cost management programs aimed at aligning our expenditures with anticipated revenue streams, which sometimes result in restructuring charges. even during periods of reduced revenues, we must continue to invest in r&amp;d and maintain extensive ongoing worldwide customer service and support capabilities to remain competitive, which may temporarily harm our profitability and other financial results. 14 table of contents our quarterly revenues and operating results are variable our revenues and operating results may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, not all of which are in our control. we manage our expense levels based in part on our expectations of future revenues. because our operating expenses are based in part on anticipated future revenues, and a certain amount of those expenses are relatively fixed, a change in the timing of recognition of revenue and/or the level of gross profit from a small number of transactions can unfavorably affect operating results in a particular quarter. factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate unpredictably include, but are not limited to: economic conditions in the electronics and semiconductor industries in general and specifically the semiconductor equipment industry; the size and timing of orders from customers; consolidation of the customer base may result in the investment decisions of one customer or market to having a significant effect on demand for our products or services; procurement shortages; the failure of our suppliers or outsource providers to perform their obligations in a manner consistent with our expectations; manufacturing difficulties; customer cancellations or delays in shipments, installations, and/or customer acceptances; the extent that customers continue to purchase and use our products and services in their business; our customers reuse of existing and installed products, to the extent that such reuse decreases their need to purchase new products or services; changes in average selling prices, customer mix, and product mix; our ability in a timely manner to develop, introduce and market new, enhanced, and competitive products; our competitors introduction of new products; legal or technical challenges to our products and technology; transportation, communication, demand, information technology or supply disruptions based on factors outside our control such as strikes, acts of god, wars, terrorist activities, and natural or man-made disasters; legal, tax, accounting, or regulatory changes (including but not limited to change in import/export regulations) or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing requirements; changes in our estimated effective tax rate; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and convertibility and the dilutive impact of our convertible notes and related warrants on our earnings per share. we may incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets we review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable. negative industry or economic trends, including reduced market prices of our common stock, reduced estimates of future cash flows, disruptions to our business, slower growth rates, or lack of growth in our relevant business units, could lead to impairment charges against our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. if, in any period, our stock price decreases to the point where our fair value, as determined by our market capitalization, is less than the book value of our assets, this could also indicate a potential impairment, and we may be required to record an impairment charge in that period, which could adversely affect our result of operations. during the 2015 fiscal year, our goodwill and long-lived asset impairment assessments resulted in an impairment charge of $79.4 million associated with the single-wafer clean reporting unit and $9.8 million related to an intangible asset. 15 table of contents our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. we operate in a highly competitive environment and projections of future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from actual results. additionally, if our analysis indicates potential impairment to goodwill in one or more of our business units, we may be required to record additional charges to earnings in our financial statements, which could negatively affect our results of operations. our leverage and debt service obligations and potential note conversion or related hedging activities may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and earnings per share as a result of the issuance of our 2020 and 2025 senior notes, our 2016 and 2018 convertible notes, and the assumption of the 2041 convertible notes in connection with our acquisition of novellus systems, inc. (collectively the notes ), we have a greater amount of debt than we have maintained in the past. furthermore, in march 2014, we entered into an unsecured credit agreement providing us with the ability to borrow up to $300 million (and, under certain circumstances, to increase such availability to $500 million). we may, in the future, decide to borrow amounts under this facility, or to enter into additional debt arrangements. in addition, we have entered, and in the future may enter, into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge against the variability of cash flows due to changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate debt. we could be exposed to losses in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to our derivative instruments. our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including: increased risk associated with any inability to satisfy our obligations; increasing the portion of our cash flows that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; and impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future. our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory, and other factors. furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. as a result, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds. if we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. if we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. conversion of our convertible notes and resulting exercise of the related warrants may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share. the number of shares of our common stock into which the convertible notes are convertible for and the related warrants are exercisable for may be adjusted from time to time, including increases in such rates as a result of dividends that we pay to our stockholders. upon conversion of any convertible notes, we will deliver cash in the amount of the principal amount of the convertible notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the convertible notes, shares of our common stock, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. this dilution may be mitigated to some extent by the hedging transactions we entered into in connection with the sale of the 2016 and 2018 notes or through share repurchases. prior to the maturity of the convertible notes, if the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we report an increase in diluted share count, which would result in lower reported earnings per share. the price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the convertible notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and also by hedging activity that may develop involving our common stock by holders of the convertible notes. 16 table of contents our credit agreements contain covenant restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. we may be unable to respond to changes in business and economic conditions, engage in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, or obtain additional financing, because our debt agreements contain, and any of our other future similar agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional debt, assume obligations in connection with letters of credit, or issue guarantees; create liens; enter into transactions with our affiliates; sell certain assets; and merge or consolidate with any person. our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. in addition, our failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the senior notes, the convertible notes or our other debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. if any of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt, which could materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operation. we have a limited number of key customers sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments, cash flows, collections, and profitability. for the years ended june 29, 2015, june 28, 2014 and june 30, 2013, three customers accounted for 51%, 52%, and 45% of total revenue, respectively. as a result, the actions of even one customer may subject us to variability in those areas that are difficult to predict. in addition, large customers may be able to negotiate requirements that result in decreased pricing; increased costs and/or lower margins for us; compliance to specific environmental, social and corporate governance standards; and limitations on our ability to share jointly developed technology with others. similarly, significant portions of our credit risk may, at any given time, be concentrated among a limited number of customers, so that the failure of even one of these key customers to pay its obligations to us could significantly impact our financial results. we depend on creating new products and processes and enhancing existing products and processes for our success. consequently, we are subject to risks associated with rapid technological change rapid technological changes in semiconductor manufacturing processes subject us to increased pressure to develop technological advances that enable those processes. we believe that our future success depends in part upon our ability to develop and offer new products with improved capabilities and to continue to enhance our existing products. if new products or existing products have reliability, quality, design, or safety problems, our performance may be impacted by reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance of and payment for new products, and additional service and warranty expenses. we may be unable to develop and manufacture products successfully, or products that we introduce may fail in the marketplace. for over 25 years the primary driver of technology advancement in the semiconductor industry has been to shrink the lithography that prints the circuit design on semiconductor chips. that driver could be approaching its technological limit, leading semiconductor manufacturers to investigate more complex changes in multiple technologies in an effort to continue technology development. in the face of uncertainty on which technology solutions will become successful, we will need to focus our efforts on developing the technology changes that are ultimately successful in supporting our customer requirements. our failure to develop and offer the correct technology solutions in a timely manner with productive and cost-effective products could adversely affect our business in a material way. our failure to commercialize new products in a timely manner could result in loss of market share, unanticipated costs, and inventory obsolescence, which would adversely affect our financial results. 17 table of contents in order to develop new products and processes and enhance existing products and processes, we expect to continue to make significant investments in r&amp;d and to pursue joint development relationships with customers, suppliers, or other members of the industry. we must manage product transitions and joint development relationships successfully, as the introduction of new products could adversely affect our sales of existing products and certain jointly developed technologies may be subject to restrictions on our ability to share that technology with other customers, which could limit our market for products incorporating those technologies. future technologies, processes or product developments may render our current product offerings obsolete, leaving us with non-competitive products, or obsolete inventory, or both. moreover, customers may adopt new technologies or processes to address the complex challenges associated with next generation devices. this shift may result in a reduction in the size of our addressable markets or could increase the relative size of markets in which we either do not compete or have relatively low market share. we are subject to risks relating to product concentration and lack of product revenue diversification we derive a substantial percentage of our revenues from a limited number of products. system sales constitute a significant portion of our total revenue. our systems are priced up to approximately $9 million per system, and our revenues in any given quarter are dependent upon customer acceptance of a limited number of systems. as a result, the inability to recognize revenue on even a few systems can cause a significantly adverse impact on our revenues for a given quarter, and, in the longer term, the continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could therefore be adversely affected by: a decline in demand for even a limited number of our products; a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products; export restrictions or other regulatory or legislative actions that could limit our ability to sell those products to key customers or customers within certain markets; an improved version of products being offered by a competitor in the markets in which we participate; increased pressure from competitors that offer broader product lines; technological changes that we are unable to address with our products; or a failure to release new or enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis. in addition, the fact that we offer limited product lines creates the risk that our customers may view us as less important to their business than our competitors that offer additional products. this may impact our ability to maintain or expand our business with certain customers. such product concentration may also subject us to additional risks associated with technology changes. our business is affected by our customers use of our products in certain steps in their wafer fabrication processes. should technologies change so that the manufacture of semiconductors requires fewer steps using our products, this could have a larger impact on our business than it would on the business of our less concentrated competitors. strategic alliances and customer consolidation may have negative effects on our business increasingly, semiconductor manufacturing companies are entering into strategic alliances or consolidating with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies and/or achieve economies of scale. the outcomes of such an alliance can be the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function and/or the standardization of a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment; while the outcomes of consolidation can lead to an overall reduction in the market for semiconductor manufacturing equipment as customers operations achieve economies of scale and/or increased purchasing power based on their higher volumes. in certain instances, this could work to our disadvantage if a competitor tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such functions or processes. additional outcomes of such consolidation may include our customers re-evaluating their future supplier relationships to consider other competitors products and/or gaining additional influence over the pricing of products and the control of intellectual property. 18 table of contents similarly, our customers may partner with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. if those institutions utilize a competitor equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will tend to use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. even if they select our equipment, the institutions and the customers that follow their lead could impose conditions on acceptance of that equipment, such as adherence to standards and requirements or limitations on how we license our proprietary rights that increase our costs or require us to take on greater risk. these actions could adversely impact our market share and financial results. we depend on a limited number of key suppliers and outsource providers, and we run the risk that they might not perform as we expect outsource providers and component suppliers have played and will continue to play a key role in our manufacturing operations and in many of our transactional and administrative functions, such as information technology, facilities management, and certain elements of our finance organization. these providers and suppliers might suffer financial setbacks, be acquired by third parties, become subject to exclusivity arrangements that preclude further business with us or be unable to meet our requirements or expectation due to their independent business decisions, or force majeure events that could interrupt or impair their continued ability to perform as we expect. although we attempt to select reputable providers and suppliers, and we attempt to secure their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers or suppliers could fail to perform as we expect, or fail to secure or protect intellectual property rights, and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. in some cases, the requirements of our business mandate that we obtain certain components and sub-assemblies included in our products from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. where practical, we endeavor to establish alternative sources to mitigate the risk that the failure of any single provider or supplier will adversely affect our business, but this is not feasible in all circumstances. there is therefore a risk that a prolonged inability to obtain certain components or secure key services could impair our ability to manage operations, ship products and generate revenues, which could adversely affect our operating results and damage our customer relationships. we face risks related to the disruption of our primary manufacturing facilities our manufacturing facilities are concentrated in just a few locations. these locations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons such as natural or man-made disasters, terrorist activities, disruptions of our information technology resources, and utility interruptions. such disruptions may cause delays in shipping our products which could result in the loss of business or customer trust, adversely affecting our business and operating results. once a semiconductor manufacturer commits to purchase a competitor semiconductor manufacturing equipment, the manufacturer typically continues to purchase that competitor equipment, making it more difficult for us to sell our equipment to that customer semiconductor manufacturers must make a substantial investment to qualify and integrate wafer processing equipment into a semiconductor production line. we believe that once a semiconductor manufacturer selects a particular supplier processing equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for that specific production line application for an extended period of time, especially if customers are more focused on tool re-use than in the past. accordingly, we expect it to be more difficult to sell our products to a given customer if that customer initially selects a competitor equipment for the same product line application. we face a challenging and complex competitive environment we face significant competition from multiple competitors and with increased consolidation efforts in our industry we may face increasing competitive pressures. other companies continue to develop systems and products that are competitive to ours and may introduce new products, which may affect our ability to sell our existing products. 19 table of contents we face a greater risk if our competitors enter into strategic relationships with leading semiconductor manufacturers covering products similar to those we sell or may develop, as this could adversely affect our ability to sell products to those manufacturers. we believe that to remain competitive we must devote significant financial resources to offer a broad range of products, to maintain customer service and support centers worldwide, and to invest in product and process r&amp;d. certain of our competitors, including those that are created and financially backed by foreign governments, have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, and customer service and support resources than we do and therefore have the potential to offer customers a more comprehensive array of products and to therefore achieve additional relative success in the semiconductor equipment industry. these competitors may deeply discount or give away products similar to those that we sell, challenging or even exceeding our ability to make similar accommodations and threatening our ability to sell those products. we also face competition from our own customers, who in some instances have established affiliated entities that manufacture equipment similar to ours. for these reasons, we may fail to continue to compete successfully worldwide. in addition, our competitors may be able to develop products comparable or superior to those we offer or may adapt more quickly to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. in particular, while we continue to develop product enhancements that we believe will address future customer requirements, we may fail in a timely manner to complete the development or introduction of these additional product enhancements successfully, or these product enhancements may not achieve market acceptance or be competitive. accordingly, competition may intensify, and we may be unable to continue to compete successfully in our markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial condition, and/or cash flows. our future success depends heavily on international sales and the management of global operations non-u.s. sales accounted for approximately 83%, 86%, and 80% of total revenue in fiscal years 2015, 2014, and 2013, respectively. we expect that international sales will continue to account for a substantial majority of our total revenue in future years. we are subject to various challenges related to international sales and the management of global operations including, but not limited to: trade balance issues; tariffs and other barriers; global or national economic and political conditions; changes in currency controls; differences in the enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in varying jurisdictions; our ability to respond to customer and foreign government demands for locally sourced systems, spare parts and services and develop the necessary relationships with local suppliers; compliance with u.s. and international laws and regulations affecting foreign operations; including u.s. and international trade restrictions and sanctions, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, environmental, and labor laws; fluctuations in interest and foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to repatriate cash in a tax-efficient manner; the need for technical support resources in different locations; and our ability to secure and retain qualified people, and effectively manage people, in all necessary locations for the successful operation of our business. certain international sales depend on our ability to obtain export licenses from the u.s. government. our failure or inability to obtain such licenses would substantially limit our markets and severely restrict our revenues. many of 20 table of contents the challenges noted above are applicable in china, which is a fast developing market for the semiconductor equipment industry and therefore an area of potential significant growth for our business. as the business volume between china and the rest of the world grows, there is inherent risk, based on the complex relationships among china, taiwan, japan, south korea, and the united states, that political and diplomatic influences might lead to trade disruptions. this would adversely affect our business with china, taiwan, japan, and/or south korea and perhaps the entire asia pacific region. a significant trade disruption in these areas could have a materially adverse impact on our future revenue and profits. in addition, there are risks that the chinese government may, among other things: insist on the use of local suppliers; compel companies that do business in china to partner with local companies to design and supply equipment on a local basis, requiring the transfer of intellectual property rights and/or local manufacturing; and provide special incentives to government-backed local customers to buy from local competitors, even if their products are inferior to ours; all of which could adversely impact our revenues and margins. we are exposed to potentially adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our sales and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and expenses denominated in euro and korean won. currently, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities; primarily third party accounts receivables, accounts payables and intercompany receivables and payables. in addition, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated and korean won-denominated expenses. we believe these are our primary exposures to currency rate fluctuation. we expect to continue to enter into hedging transactions, for the purposes outlined, for the foreseeable future. however, these hedging transactions may not achieve their desired effect because differences between the actual timing of the underlying exposures and our forecasts of those exposures may leave us either over-or under-hedged on any given transaction. moreover, by hedging these foreign currency denominated revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities with foreign currency forward contracts, we may miss favorable currency trends that would have been advantageous to us but for the hedges. additionally, we are exposed to short-term foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on non-u.s. dollar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities (other than those currency exposures previously discussed) and currently we do not enter into foreign currency hedge contracts against these exposures. therefore, we are subject to both favorable and unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to the extent that we transact business (including intercompany transactions) for these currencies. the magnitude of our overseas business also affects where our cash is generated. certain uses of cash, such as share repurchases, payment of dividends or the repayment of our notes, can usually only be made with on-shore cash balances. since the majority of our cash is generated outside of the united states, this may impact certain business decisions and adversely affect business outcomes. our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees is critical to our success our ability to compete successfully depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees. this is an ongoing challenge due to intense competition for top talent, as well as fluctuations in industry economic conditions that may require cycles of hiring activity and workforce reductions. our success in hiring depends on a variety of factors, including the attractiveness of our compensation and benefit programs and our ability to offer a challenging and rewarding work environment. we periodically evaluate our overall compensation programs and make adjustments, as appropriate, to maintain or enhance their competitiveness. if we are not able to successfully attract, retain, and motivate key employees, we may be unable to capitalize on market opportunities and our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. we rely upon certain critical information systems for the operation of our business we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications, and e-mail. these information systems may be owned and 21 table of contents maintained by us, our outsourced providers or third parties such as vendors and contractors. many of these information systems and outsourced service providers, including certain hosted software applications that we use for confidential data storage, employ cloud computing technology for such storage (which refers to an information technology hosting and delivery system in which data is not stored within the user physical infrastructure but instead is delivered to and consumed by the user as an internet-based service). all of these information systems are subject to attacks, failures, and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures, and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines, and networking equipment. confidential and/or sensitive information stored on these information systems or transmitted to or from cloud storage could be intentionally or unintentionally compromised, lost and/or stolen. while we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to mitigate the outlined risks with respect to information systems that are under our control, they cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time, or unauthorized releases of proprietary or confidential information, could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities as a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the split of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws, by material audit assessments, or changes in or expirations of agreements with tax authorities. these factors could affect our profitability. in particular, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect our profitability. a failure to comply with environmental regulations may adversely affect our operating results we are subject to a variety of domestic and international governmental regulations related to the handling, discharge, and disposal of toxic, volatile, or otherwise hazardous chemicals. failure to comply with present or future environmental regulations could result in fines being imposed on us, require us to suspend production, or cease operations, or cause our customers to not accept our products. these regulations could require us to alter our current operations, acquire significant additional equipment, incur substantial other expenses to comply with environmental regulations, or take other actions. any failure to comply with regulations governing the use, handling, sale, transport or disposal of hazardous substances could subject us to future liabilities that may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and ability to operate our business. if we choose to acquire or dispose of businesses, product lines and technologies, we may encounter unforeseen costs and difficulties that could impair our financial performance an important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement our existing products, augment our market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance our technological capabilities. as a result, we may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies, or we may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies or reducing personnel entail numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management attention away from other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, adverse customer reaction to our decision to cease support for a product, and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of 22 table of contents product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel or that our management, personnel, or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. any such inabilities or inadequacies could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, any acquisition could result in changes such as potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, the amortization of related intangible assets, and goodwill impairment charges, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and/or the price of our common stock. the market for our common stock is volatile, which may affect our ability to raise capital, make acquisitions, or subject our business to additional costs the market price for our common stock is volatile and has fluctuated significantly over the past years. the trading price of our common stock could continue to be highly volatile and fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors, many of which are not within our control or influence. these factors include but are not limited to the following: general market, semiconductor, or semiconductor equipment industry conditions; economic or political events and trends occurring globally or in any of our key sales regions; variations in our quarterly operating results and financial condition, including our liquidity; variations in our revenues, earnings or other business and financial metrics from forecasts by us or securities analysts, or from those experienced by other companies in our industry; announcements of restructurings, reductions in force, departure of key employees, and/or consolidations of operations; government regulations; developments in, or claims relating to, patent or other proprietary rights; technological innovations and the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; commercial success or failure of our new and existing products; disruptions of relationships with key customers or suppliers; or convertibility and dilutive impacts of our convertible notes and related warrants. in addition, the stock market experiences significant price and volume fluctuations. historically, we have witnessed significant volatility in the price of our common stock due in part to the price of and markets for semiconductors. these and other factors have and may again adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. in the past, following volatile periods in the price of their stock, many companies became the object of securities class action litigation. if we are sued in a securities class action, we could incur substantial costs, and it could divert management attention and resources and have an unfavorable impact on our financial performance and the price for our common stock. intellectual property, indemnity, and other claims against us can be costly and we could lose significant rights that are necessary to our continued business and profitability third parties may assert infringement, unfair competition, product liability, breach of contract, or other claims against us. from time to time, other persons send us notices alleging that our products infringe their patent or other intellectual property rights. in addition, law enforcement authorities may seek criminal charges relating to intellectual property or other issues. we also face risks of claims arising from commercial and other relationships. in addition, our bylaws and other indemnity obligations provide that we will indemnify officers and directors against losses that they may incur in legal proceedings resulting from their service to us. from time to time, in the normal course of business, we indemnify third parties with whom we enter into contractual relationships, including customers and suppliers, with respect to certain matters. we have agreed, under certain conditions, to hold these third parties harmless against specified losses, such as those arising from a breach of representations or 23 table of contents covenants, other third party claims that our products when used for their intended purposes infringe the intellectual property rights of such other third parties, or other claims made against certain parties. in such cases, it is our policy either to defend the claims or to negotiate licenses or other settlements on commercially reasonable terms. however, we may be unable in the future to negotiate necessary licenses or reach agreement on other settlements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and any litigation resulting from these claims by other parties may materially adversely affect our business and financial results, and we may be subject to substantial damage awards and penalties. moreover, although we have insurance to protect us from certain claims and cover certain losses to our property, such insurance may not cover us for the full amount of any losses, or at all, and may be subject to substantial exclusions and deductibles. we may fail to protect our critical proprietary technology rights, which could affect our business our success depends in part on our proprietary technology and our ability to protect key components of that technology through patents, copyrights and trade secret protection. protecting our key proprietary technology helps us to achieve our goals of developing technological expertise and new products and systems that give us a competitive advantage; increasing market penetration and growth of our installed base; and providing comprehensive support and service to our customers. as part of our strategy to protect our technology we currently hold a number of u.s. and foreign patents and pending patent applications, and we keep certain information, processes and techniques as trade secrets. however, other parties may challenge or attempt to invalidate or circumvent any patents the united states or foreign governments issue to us, these governments may fail to issue patents for pending applications, or we may lose trade secret protection over valuable information due to the intentional or unintentional actions or omissions of third parties, of ours or even our own employees. additionally, intellectual property litigation can be expensive and time-consuming and even when patents are issued or trade secret processes are followed, the legal systems in certain of the countries in which we do business do not enforce patents and other intellectual property rights as rigorously as the united states. the rights granted or anticipated under any of our patents, pending patent applications or trade secrets may be narrower than we expect or, in fact, provide no competitive advantages. moreover, because we determine the jurisdictions in which to file patents at the time of filing, we may not have adequate protection in the future based on such previous decisions. any of these circumstances could have a material adverse impact on our business. we are exposed to various risks from our regulatory environment we are subject to various risks related to (i) new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and/or regulatory agencies in the countries that we operate; (ii) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; and (iii) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and regulations. as a public company with global operations, we are subject to the laws of multiple jurisdictions and the rules and regulations of various governing bodies, including those related to financial and other disclosures, corporate governance, privacy, anti-corruption, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, conflict minerals or other social responsibility legislation, and antitrust regulations, among others. each of these laws, rules and regulations imposes costs on our business, including financial costs and potential diversion of our management attention associated with compliance, and may present risks to our business, including potential fines, restrictions on our actions, and reputational damage if we are unable to fully comply. to maintain high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with all evolving standards. changes in or ambiguous interpretations of laws, regulations and standards may create uncertainty regarding compliance matters. efforts to comply with new and changing regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. if we are found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance with the laws and regulations, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 24 table of contents there can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or repurchase our shares at all or in any particular amounts. our board of directors has declared quarterly dividends since april 2014. our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and, in the case of dividends, periodic determinations by our board of directors that cash dividends are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and agreements applicable to the declaration and payment of cash dividends by us. future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors: our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; stock repurchase programs; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; and changes to our business model. our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. a reduction or suspension in our dividend payments or share repurchase activity could have a negative effect on our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investments we maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. as of june 28, 2015, our mutual funds are classified as trading securities. investments classified as trading securities are recorded at fair value based upon quoted market prices. any material differences between the cost and fair value of trading securities is recognized as other income (expense) in our consolidated statement of operations. all of our other short-term investments are classified as available-for-sale and consequently are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax. interest rate risk fixed income securities our investments in various interest earning securities carry a degree of market risk for changes in interest rates. at any time, a sharp rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our fixed income investment portfolio. conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on interest income for our investment portfolio. we target to maintain a conservative investment policy, which focuses on the safety and preservation of our capital by limiting default risk, market risk, reinvestment risk, and concentration risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of fixed income securities that would result from selected potential decreases and increases in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in 44 table of contents the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. the hypothetical fair values as of june 28, 2015 were as follows: valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of june 28, 2015 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x basis points (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 0.00% 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) time deposit $ 177,567 $ 177,567 $ 177,567 $ 177,567 $ 177,567 $ 177,567 $ 177,567 municipal notes and bonds 664,269 663,950 662,706 659,644 656,254 652,863 649,473 us treasury &amp; agencies 360,447 359,598 356,415 352,223 347,915 343,611 339,307 government-sponsored enterprises 54,961 54,678 54,032 53,365 52,696 52,025 51,355 foreign government bonds 51,364 51,170 50,719 50,206 49,694 49,181 48,668 bank and corporate notes 1,355,199 1,347,658 1,337,307 1,326,475 1,315,444 1,304,414 1,293,385 mortgage backed securities - residential 32,523 32,372 32,200 32,011 31,815 31,619 31,423 mortgage backed securities - commercial 143,246 142,688 142,066 141,426 140,788 140,148 139,509 total $ 2,839,576 $ 2,829,681 $ 2,813,012 $ 2,792,917 $ 2,772,173 $ 2,751,428 $ 2,730,687 we mitigate default risk by investing in high credit quality securities and by positioning our portfolio to respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment issuer or guarantor. the portfolio includes only marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to achieve portfolio liquidity and maintain a prudent amount of diversification. long-term debt as of june 28, 2015, we had $3.6 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate long-term debt outstanding, with a fair value of $3.9 billion. the fair value of our notes is subject to interest rate risk, market risk, and other factors due to the convertible feature, as applicable. generally, the fair value of notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. additionally, the fair value of the convertible notes will increase as our common stock price increases and decrease as our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of our notes but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. we do not carry the notes at fair value, but present the fair value of the principal amount of our notes for disclosure purposes. equity price risk publicly traded securities the values of our investments in publicly traded securities, including mutual funds related to our obligations under our deferred compensation plans, are subject to market price risk. the following table presents the hypothetical fair values of our publicly traded securities that would result from potential decreases and increases in the price of each security in the portfolio. potential fluctuations in the price of each security in the portfolio of plus or minus 10%, 15%, or 25% were selected based on potential near-term changes in those security prices. the hypothetical fair values as of june 28, 2015 were as follows: valuation of securities given an x% decrease in stock price fair value as of june 28, 2015 valuation of securities given an x% increase in stock price (25%) (15%) (10%) 0.00% 10% 15% 25% (in thousands) mutual funds $ 25,097 $ 28,444 $ 30,117 33,463 $ 36,809 $ 38,482 $ 41,829 45 table of contents foreign currency exchange ( fx ) risk we conduct business on a global basis in several major international currencies. as such, we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in foreign currency exchange rates. the majority of our revenues and expenses are denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations primarily related to revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated and korean won-denominated expenses. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations on certain foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third party accounts receivables, accounts payables and intercompany receivables and payables. in addition, we hedge certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows, primarily on japanese yen-denominated revenues and euro-denominated and korean won-denominated expenses. to protect against the reduction in value of anticipated revenues denominated in japanese yen and euro-denominated and korean won-denominated expenses, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts that generally expire within 12 months, and no later than 24 months. these foreign currency forward contracts are designated as cash flow hedges and are carried on our balance sheet at fair value, with the effective portion of the contracts gains or losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently recognized in earnings in the same period the hedged revenue and/or expense is recognized. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the gains and losses generated by the remeasurement of certain non-u.s.-dollar denominated monetary assets and liabilities, primarily third party accounts receivables, accounts payables and intercompany receivables and payables. the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedge contracts is recorded into earnings as a component of other income (expense), net and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities also recorded in other income (expense), net, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. the notional amount and unrealized gain of our outstanding forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges, as of june 28, 2015 are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these cash flow hedges assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. notional amount unrealized fx gain / (loss) june 28, 2015 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each + / - (10%) + / - (15%) (in $ millions) cash flow hedge sell japanese yen $ 18.9 $ 2.8 $ 1.6 $ 2.4 buy korean won $ 7.3 ($ 0.1 ) $ 0.7 $ 1.1 buy euro $ 34.4 ($ 0.2 ) $ 3.4 $ 5.1 $ 2.5 $ 5.7 $ 8.6 46 table of contents the notional amount and unrealized loss of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as balance sheet hedges, as of june 28, 2015 are shown in the table below. this table also shows the change in fair value of these balance sheet hedges, assuming a hypothetical foreign currency exchange rate movement of plus-or-minus 10 percent and plus-or-minus 15 percent. these changes in fair values would be offset in other income (expense), net, by corresponding change in fair values of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, assuming the hedge contract fully covers the intercompany and trade receivable balances. notional amount unrealized fx gain / (loss) june 28, 2015 valuation of fx contracts given an x% increase (+)/decrease(-) in each + / - (10%) + / - (15%) (in $ millions) balance sheet hedge sell japanese yen $ 49.9 $ $ 5.0 $ 7.5 buy korean won $ 8.9 $ $ 0.9 $ 1.3 sell swiss francs $ 3.3 $ $ 0.3 $ 0.5 buy taiwan dollar $ 22.1 ($ 0.4 ) $ 2.1 $ 3.2 buy euro $ 4.0 $ $ 0.4 $ 0.6 ($ 0.4 ) $ 8.7 $ 13.1 47 table of contents