risk factors 17 risk factors changes in product demand may harm our financial results and are hard to predict. if product demand decreases, our revenue and profit could be harmed. important factors that could cause demand for our products to decrease include changes in: business conditions, including downturns in the computing industry, regional economies, and the overall economy; consumer confidence or income levels caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in government borrowing, taxation, or spending policies; the credit market; or expected inflation, employment, and energy or other commodity prices; the level of customers' inventories; competitive and pricing pressures, including actions taken by competitors; customer product needs; market acceptance of our products and maturing product cycles; and the technology supply chain, including supply constraints caused by natural disasters or other events. our operations have high costs including costs related to facility construction and equipment, r&amp;d, and employment and training of a highly skilled workforce that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. at the same time, demand for our products is highly variable and, in recent years, we have experienced declining orders in the traditional pc market segment, which has been negatively impacted by the growth in ultra-mobile devices such as tablets and smartphones . if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record excess capacity charges, which would lower our gross margin. our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to write down our long-lived assets, which would increase our expenses. factory-planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of facilities and equipment and cause us to accelerate depreciation. if product demand increases, we may be unable to add capacity fast enough to meet market demand. our revenue and gross margin percentage can also be affected by the timing of our product introductions and related expenses, including marketing expenses. changes in product demand, and changes in our customers' product needs, could negatively affect our competitive position and may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to write down our assets. we operate in highly competitive industries, and our failure to anticipate and respond to technological and market developments could harm our ability to compete. we operate in highly competitive industries that experience rapid technological and market developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer needs, and frequent product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to these developments, we might weaken our competitive position, and our products or technologies might be uncompetitive or obsolete. as computing market segments emerge, such as smartphones, tablets, and consumer electronics devices, we face new sources of competition and customers with needs different from those of customers in the pc market segment. some of our competitors are pursuing a vertical integration strategy, incorporating their soc solutions into the smartphones and tablets they offer, which could make it less likely that they will adopt our soc solutions. to be successful, we need to cultivate new industry relationships in these market segments. as the number and variety of internet-connected devices increase, we need to continuously improve the cost, connectivity, integration, features, energy efficiency, and security of our platforms, among other things, to succeed in these market segments. in addition, we need to expand our software capabilities to provide customers with comprehensive computing solutions. to compete successfully, we must maintain a successful r&amp;d effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes ahead of competitors. for example, we invest substantially in our network of manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, including the construction of new fabrication facilities to support smaller transistor geometries and larger wafers. our r&amp;d efforts are critical to our success and are aimed at solving complex problems, and we do not expect all of our projects to be successful. we may be unable to develop and market new products successfully, and the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers. our r&amp;d investments may not generate significant operating income or contribute to our future operating results for several years and such contributions may not meet our expectations or even cover the costs of such investments. additionally, the products and technologies offered by others may affect demand for or pricing of our products. these types of events could negatively affect our competitive position and may reduce revenue, increase costs, lower gross margin percentage, or require us to impair our assets. 17 table of contents changes in the mix of products sold may harm our financial results. because of the wide price differences of platform average selling prices among our data center, pc client, and other ia platforms, a change in the mix of platforms among these market segments may impact our revenue and gross margin. for example, our pc client platforms that are incorporated in notebook and desktop computers tend to have lower average selling prices and gross margin than our data center platforms that are incorporated in servers, workstations and storage products. therefore, if there is less demand for our data center platforms, and a resulting mix shift to our pc client platforms, our gross margins and revenue would decrease. also, more recently introduced products tend to have higher costs because of initial development costs and lower production volumes relative to the previous product generation, which can impact gross margin. our global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results of operations and financial condition. we have sales offices, r&amp;d, manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, and other facilities in many countries, and some business activities may be concentrated in one or more geographic areas. as a result, our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products may be affected by: security concerns, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity; natural disasters and health concerns; inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as supply chain interruptions and large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities, transportation, or telecommunications providers; restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings; differing employment practices and labor issues; and local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and other anti-corruption laws and regulations. legal and regulatory requirements differ among jurisdictions worldwide. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. although we have policies, controls, and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, or agents may violate our policies. although most of our sales occur in u.s. dollars, expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses may be paid in local currencies. we also conduct certain investing and financing activities in local currencies. our hedging programs reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements; therefore, changes in exchange rates could harm our results of operations and financial condition. changes in tariff and import regulations and in u.s. and non-u.s. monetary policies may harm our results of operations and financial condition by increasing our expenses and reducing revenue. differing tax rates in various jurisdictions could harm our results of operations and financial condition by increasing our overall tax rate. we maintain a program of insurance coverage for a variety of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with multiple carriers in numerous jurisdictions. however, one or more of our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. the types and amounts of insurance we obtain vary depending on availability, cost, and decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies have deductibles and exclusions that result in us retaining a level of self-insurance. losses not covered by insurance may be large, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. failure to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of operations. production of integrated circuits is a complex process. disruptions in this process can result from errors, difficulties in our development and implementation of new processes, defects in materials, disruptions in our supply of materials or resources, and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. we may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. production issues may result in our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting in higher costs or large decreases in yields, which could affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet product demand. the unavailability or reduced availability of products could make it more difficult to deliver computing platforms. the occurrence of these events could harm our business and results of operations. 18 table of contents we may have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our ability to meet demand and increase our costs. we have thousands of suppliers providing materials that we use in production and other aspects of our business, and where possible, we seek to have several sources of supply for all of those materials. however, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single location, for these materials. the inability of suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production processes or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. production could be disrupted by the unavailability of resources used in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, gases, and other materials. future environmental regulations could restrict the supply or increase the cost of materials that we use in our business and make it more difficult to obtain permits to build or modify manufacturing capacity to meet demand. the unavailability or reduced availability of materials or resources may require us to reduce production or incur additional costs. the occurrence of these events could harm our business and results of operations. costs related to product defects and errata may harm our results of operations and business. costs of product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) due to, for example, problems in our design and manufacturing processes, could include: writing off the value of inventory; disposing of products that cannot be fixed; recalling products that have been shipped; providing product replacements or modifications; and defending against litigation. these costs could be large and may increase expenses and lower gross margin. our reputation with customers or end users could be damaged as a result of product defects and errata, and product demand could be reduced. the announcement of product defects and errata could cause customers to purchase products from competitors as a result of possible shortages of intel components or for other reasons. these factors could harm our business and financial results. third parties might attempt to gain unauthorized access to our network or seek to compromise our products and services, which could damage our reputation and financial results. we regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the internet or to introduce malicious software to our it systems. additionally, malicious hackers may attempt to gain unauthorized access and corrupt the processes of hardware and software products that we manufacture and services we provide. these attempts might be the result of industrial or other espionage or actions by hackers seeking to harm our company, our products and services, or users of our products and services. due to the widespread use of our products and due to the high profile of our mcafee subsidiary, we or our products and services are a frequent target of computer hackers and organizations that intend to sabotage, take control of, or otherwise corrupt our manufacturing or other processes, products and services. we are also a target of malicious attackers who attempt to gain access to our network or data centers or those of our customers or end users; steal proprietary information related to our business, products, employees and customers; or interrupt our systems and services or those of our customers or others. we believe such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication. these attacks are sometimes successful; and in some instances, we, our customers, and the users of our products and services might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. we seek to detect and investigate such attempts and incidents and to prevent their recurrence where practicable through changes to our internal processes and tools and/or changes or patches to our products and services, but in some cases preventive and remedial action might not be successful. such attacks, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in our incurring costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, reduced inventory value, providing modifications to our products and services, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. publicity about vulnerabilities and attempted or successful incursions could damage our reputation with customers or users and reduce demand for our products and services. 19 table of contents we may be subject to theft, loss or misuse of personal data about us or our employees, customers or other third parties, which could increase our expenses, damage our reputation or result in litigation. global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity are rapidly expanding and creating a complex compliance environment. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business could result in increased security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. costs to comply with and implement privacy-related and data protection measures could be significant. our failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. third parties may claim infringement of ip rights, which could harm our business. we may face ip rights infringement claims from individuals and companies, including those who have acquired patent portfolios to assert claims against other companies. we are engaged in a number of litigation matters involving ip rights. claims that our products or processes infringe the ip rights of others could cause us to incur large costs to respond to, defend, and resolve the claims, and they may divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel. as a result of ip rights infringement claims, we could: pay monetary damages for infringement claims; stop manufacturing, using, selling, offering to sell or importing products or technology subject to infringement claims; develop other products or technology not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming, costly or impossible; or license technology from the party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. these actions could harm our competitive position, result in expenses, or require us to impair our assets. if we alter or stop production of affected items, our revenue could be harmed. we may be unable to enforce or protect our ip rights, which may harm our ability to compete and may harm our business. our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other ip rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our ip rights in various countries. when we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the ip rights are invalid, not enforceable, or licensed to the opposing party. our assertion of ip rights often results in the other party seeking to assert claims against us, which could harm our business. governments may adopt regulations and governments or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of ip rights, or governments may require products to meet standards that serve to favor local companies. our inability to enforce our ip rights under these circumstances may harm our competitive position and business. we may be subject to ip theft or misuse, which could result in claims against us and harm our business and results of operations. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; the value of our investment in r&amp;d, product development, and marketing could be reduced. in addition, the theft or unauthorized use or publication of third party trade secrets and other confidential business information that we obtain in conducting our business might lead to third-party claims against us related to the loss of the confidential or proprietary information or end-user data. any such incidents and claims could severely disrupt our business, and we could suffer losses, including the cost of product recalls and returns and reputational harm. our licenses with other companies and participation in industry initiatives may allow competitors to use our patent rights. companies in the computing industry often bilaterally license patents between each other to settle disputes or as part of business agreements between them. our competitors may have licenses to our patents, and under current case law, some of the licenses may permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others under some circumstances. our participation in industry standards organizations or with other industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to companies that adopt industry-standard specifications. depending on the rules of the organization, we might have to grant these licenses to our patents for little or no cost, and as a result, we may be unable to enforce certain patents against others, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our ip rights may be impaired. in addition, we may not be able to obtain licenses on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms to patents asserted to be essential to standards that we implement in our products. 20 table of contents litigation or regulatory proceedings could harm our business. we may face legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. as described in note 26: contingencies in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k, we are engaged in a number of litigation and regulatory matters. litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling products, engaging in business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. we face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties. we sell a portion of our products through third parties such as distributors, value-added resellers, oems, internet service providers, and channel partners (collectively referred to as distributors). using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. distributors may sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to focus distributors on the sale of our products. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. violations of fcpa or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. failing to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. we face risks related to sales to government entities. we derive a portion of our revenue from sales to government entities and their respective agencies. government demand and payment for our products may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations. government contracts are subject to oversight, including special rules on accounting, expenses, reviews, and security. failing to comply with these rules could result in civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, fines and suspensions, or debarment from future government business. we invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. we make investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support key business initiatives. these investments include equity or debt instruments of public or private companies, and many of these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. companies range from early-stage companies that are still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. the companies in which we invest may fail because they are unable to secure additional funding, obtain favorable terms for future financings, or participate in liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. if any of these companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment. if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an investment, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize a loss, impacting gains (losses) on equity investments, net. our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying accounting policies. the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying accounting policies have a large impact on our results of operations. for more information, see critical accounting estimates in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. these methods, estimates, and judgments are subject to large risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and changes could affect our results of operations. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our effective tax rates, which could reduce our net income, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and in deferred tax valuation allowances; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including changes in the u.s. to the taxation of non-u.s income and expenses; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; and our decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. 21 table of contents decisions about the scope of operations of our business could affect our results of operations and financial condition. changes in the business environment could lead to changes in the scope of our operations, resulting in restructuring and asset impairment charges in addition to those announced in the last twelve months. factors that could affect our results of operations and financial condition due to a change in the scope of our operations include: timing and execution of plans and programs subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and postretirement costs; divestitures; new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap, development, and manufacturing; changes in employment levels and turnover rates; changes in product demand and the business environment; and changes in the fair value of long-lived assets. our acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements for possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as joint ventures. acquisitions and other transactions involve large challenges and risks, including risks that: we may be unable to identify opportunities on terms acceptable to us; the transaction may not advance our business strategy; we may not realize a satisfactory return; we may be unable to retain key personnel; we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; acquired businesses may not have adequate controls, processes, and procedures to ensure compliance with laws and regulations, and our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities; we may have difficulty entering new market segments; or we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty selling on acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed-upon terms and financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions. these circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur added expense, or we may sell a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. if we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to factors such as: failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals; ip disputes or other litigation; or difficulties obtaining financing for the transaction. our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could harm our business and results of operations. the manufacturing and assembly and test of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of ehs laws and regulations. our failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes; reputational challenges; and restrictions on our operations or sales. our failure to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could lead to increased costs or future liabilities. environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify product designs, or incur other expenses. many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under environmental laws and regulations. these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter manufacturing and assembly and test processes. 22 table of contents in addition, the sec has adopted disclosure rules for companies that use conflict minerals (commonly referred to as tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold) in their products, with substantial supply chain verification requirements in the event that the materials come from the drc or adjoining countries. the european union and other foreign jurisdictions may in the future also enact rules regarding conflict minerals, which could potentially cover additional minerals or locations where minerals originate. due to the complexity of our supply chain, we may face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the conflict minerals used in our products. climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations and affect the way we conduct business. in addition to the possible direct economic impact that climate change could have on us, climate change mitigation programs and regulations can increase our costs. the cost of perfluorocompounds (pfcs) a gas that we use in manufacturing could increase under some climate-change-focused emissions trading programs that may be imposed through regulation. if the use of pfcs is prohibited, we would need to obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. air-quality permit requirements for our manufacturing operations could become more burdensome and cause delays in our ability to modify or build additional manufacturing capacity. under recently adopted greenhouse gas regulations in the u.s., many of our manufacturing facilities have become major sources under the clean air act. at a minimum, this change in status results in some uncertainty as the epa adopts guidance on its greenhouse gas regulations. due to the dynamic nature of our operations, these regulations will likely result in increased costs for our u.s. operations. these cost increases could be associated with new air pollution control requirements, and increased or new monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. we also see the potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change regulations. our costs could increase if utility companies pass on their costs, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable portfolio standards. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disasters or events. many of our operations are located in semi-arid regions, such as israel and the southwestern u.s. some scenarios predict that these regions may become even more vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate change. in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations. in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees. hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. to help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as employee stock options and non-vested share units (restricted stock units). if the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. a number of factors could lower interest and other, net harming our results of operations. factors that could lower interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of income include changes in fixed-income, equity, and credit markets; foreign currency exchange rates; interest rates; credit standing of financial instrument counterparties; our cash and investment balances; and our indebtedness. there are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls. we do not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all error and all fraud. a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. the design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls to future periods are subject to risks. over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. 23 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are affected by changes in non-u.s. currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. all of the potential changes presented below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions as of december 28, 2013 , and december 29, 2012 . actual results may differ materially. currency exchange rates in general, we economically hedge currency risks of non-u.s.-dollar-denominated investments in debt instruments and loans receivable with currency forward contracts or currency interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these non-u.s.-currency investments are generally offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments. substantially all of our revenue is transacted in u.s. dollars. however, a significant amount of our operating expenditures and capital purchases is incurred in or exposed to other currencies, primarily the euro, the japanese yen, and the israeli shekel. we have established balance sheet and forecasted transaction currency risk management programs to protect against fluctuations in fair value and the volatility of the functional currency equivalent of future cash flows caused by changes in exchange rates. we generally utilize currency forward contracts in these hedging programs. these programs reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements . for further information, see risk factors in part i, item 1a of this form 10-k. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that a weighted average adverse change of 20% in currency exchange rates could be experienced in the near term. such an adverse change, after taking into account balance sheet hedges only and offsetting recorded monetary asset and liability positions, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less than $40 million as of december 28, 2013 (less than $80 million as of december 29, 2012 ). interest rates we generally hedge interest rate risks of fixed-rate debt instruments with interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these investments are generally offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments. we are exposed to interest rate risk related to our investment portfolio and indebtedness. our indebtedness includes our debt issuances and the liability associated with a long-term patent cross-license agreement with nvidia corporation. the primary objective of our investments in debt instruments is to preserve principal while maximizing yields, which generally track the u.s. dollar three-month libor. a hypothetical decrease in interest rates of up to 1.0% would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our indebtedness of approximately $1.1 billion as of december 28, 2013 (an increase of approximately $1.5 billion as of december 29, 2012 ). a hypothetical decrease in benchmark interest rates of up to 1.0% , after taking into account investment hedges, would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our investment portfolio of approximately $10 million as of december 28, 2013 (an increase of approximately $10 million as of december 29, 2012 ). the fluctuations in fair value of our investment portfolio and indebtedness reflect only the direct impact of the change in interest rates. other economic variables, such as equity market fluctuations and changes in relative credit risk, could result in a significantly higher decline in the fair value of our net investment position. for further information on how credit risk is factored into the valuation of our investment portfolio and debt issuances, see note 4: fair value in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. equity prices our investments include marketable equity securities and equity derivative instruments. we typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our equity market exposure through hedging activities at the inception of the investment. before we enter into hedge arrangements, we evaluate legal, market, and economic factors, as well as the expected timing of disposal to determine whether hedging is appropriate. our equity market risk management program may include equity derivatives with or without hedge accounting designation that utilize warrants, equity options, or other equity derivatives. we also utilize total return swaps to offset changes in liabilities related to the equity market risks of certain deferred compensation arrangements. gains and losses from changes in fair value of these total return swaps are generally offset by the losses and gains on the related liabilities . 47 table of contents as of december 28, 2013 , the fair value of our marketable equity investments and our equity derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $6.3 billion ( $4.4 billion as of december 29, 2012 ). our marketable equity investment in asml was carried at a total fair market value of $5.9 billion , or 94% of our marketable equity portfolio, as of december 28, 2013 . our marketable equity method investments are excluded from our analysis, as the carrying value does not fluctuate based on market price changes unless an other-than-temporary impairment is deemed necessary. to determine reasonably possible decreases in the market value of our marketable equity investments, we have analyzed the historical market price sensitivity of our marketable equity investment portfolio. assuming a loss of 25% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, the aggregate value of our marketable equity investments could decrease by approximately $1.6 billion , based on the value as of december 28, 2013 (a decrease in value of approximately $1.6 billion , based on the value as of december 29, 2012 using an assumed loss of 35% ). many of the same factors that could result in an adverse movement of equity market prices affect our non-marketable equity investments, although we cannot always quantify the impact directly. financial markets are volatile, which could negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of our ability to realize value in our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. these types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can be no assurance that any specific company will grow or become successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our investment. our non-marketable equity investments, excluding investments accounted for under the equity method, had a carrying amount of $1.3 billion as of december 28, 2013 ( $1.2 billion as of december 29, 2012 ). the carrying amount of our non-marketable equity method investments was $1.0 billion as of december 28, 2013 ( $1.0 billion as of december 29, 2012 ). the majority of our non-marketable equity method investments balance as of december 28, 2013 , was concentrated in our imft investment of $646 million ( $642 million as of december 29, 2012 ). 48 table of contentsrisk factors 18 risk factors the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. these risk factors do not identify all risks that we face; our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. due to risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, our past financial results may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. you should also refer to the other information set forth in this annual report, including "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and our financial statements and the related notes. changes in product demand can harm our results of operation and financial condition. demand for our products is variable and hard to predict. changes in the demand for our products may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to write down the value of our assets. important factors that could lead to variation in the demand for our products include changes in: business conditions, including downturns in the computing industry, or in the global or regional economies; consumer confidence or income levels caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in government borrowing, taxation, or spending policies; the credit market; or expected inflation, employment, and energy or other commodity prices; the level of our customers' inventories; competitive and pricing pressures, including actions taken by competitors; customer product needs; market acceptance of our products and maturing product cycles; and the technology supply chain, including supply constraints caused by natural disasters or other events. we face significant competition. the industry in which we operate is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer needs, and frequent product introductions and improvements. if we do not anticipate and respond to these developments, our competitive position may weaken, and our products or technologies might be uncompetitive or obsolete. over recent years, our business focus has expanded and now includes the design and production of platforms for tablets, smartphones, and other devices across the compute continuum, including products for the internet of things, and related services. as a result, we face new sources of competition, including, in certain of these market segments, from incumbent competitors with established customer bases and greater brand recognition. to be successful, we need to cultivate new industry relationships with customers and partners in these market segments. in addition, we must continually improve the cost, integration, and energy efficiency of our products as well as expand our software capabilities to provide customers with comprehensive computing solutions. despite our ongoing efforts, there is no guarantee that we will achieve or maintain consumer and market acceptance for our products and services in these various market segments. to compete successfully, we must maintain a successful r&amp;d effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes ahead of competitors. for example, we invest substantially in our network of manufacturing and assembly and test facilities, including the construction of new fabrication facilities to support smaller transistor geometries and larger wafers. our r&amp;d efforts are critical to our success and are aimed at solving complex problems, and we do not expect all of our projects to be successful. we may be unable to develop and market new products successfully, and the products we invest in and develop may not be well-received by customers. our r&amp;d investments may not generate significant operating income or contribute to our future operating results for several years, and such contributions may not meet our expectations or even cover the costs of such investments. additionally, the products and technologies offered by others may affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. if we are not able to compete effectively, our financial results will be adversely affected, including increased costs and reduced revenue and gross margin, and we may be required to accelerate the write-down of the value of certain assets. 18 table of contents changes in the mix of products sold may harm our financial results. prices differ widely among the platforms we offer in our various market segments due to differences in features offered or manufacturing costs. for example, product offerings range from lower-priced and entry-level platforms such as those based on intel quark or intel atom processors to higher-end platforms based on intel xeon and intel itanium processors. if there is a shift in demand from our higher-priced to lower-priced platforms in any of our market segments, our gross margin and revenue would decrease. in addition, when products are initially introduced, they tend to have higher costs because of initial development costs and lower production volumes relative to the previous product generation, which can impact gross margin. we operate globally and are subject to significant risks in many jurisdictions. global or regional conditions may harm our financial results. we have manufacturing, assembly and test, r&amp;d, sales, and other operations in many countries, and some of our business activities may be concentrated in one or more geographic areas. moreover, sales outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 82% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended december 27, 2014. as a result, our operations and our financial results, including our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products, may be adversely affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including: global and local economic conditions; geopolitical and security issues, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity; natural disasters, public health issues, and other catastrophic events; inefficient infrastructure and other disruptions, such as supply chain interruptions and large-scale outages or unreliable provision of services from utilities, transportation, data hosting, or telecommunications providers; government restrictions on, or nationalization of our operations in any country, or restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings from a particular country; differing employment practices and labor issues; formal or informal imposition of new or revised export and/or import and doing-business regulations, which could be changed without notice; ineffective legal protection of our ip rights in certain countries; and local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices. we are subject to laws and regulations worldwide affecting our operations in areas including, but not limited to, ip ownership and infringement, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, employment, environment, health, and safety. compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and expensive and such requirements may differ among jurisdictions. although we have policies, controls, and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, suppliers, and/or agents will not violate such laws or our policies. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. we may be affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in currency exchange rates. although most of our sales occur in u.s. dollars, expenses may be paid in local currencies. an increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the u.s. where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as overseas capital expenditures. we also conduct certain investing and financing activities in local currencies. our hedging programs reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements; therefore, changes in exchange rates could harm our results of operations and financial condition. 19 table of contents catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. our operations or systems could be disrupted by natural disasters; geopolitical conditions; terrorist activity; public health issues; cybersecurity incidents; interruptions of service from utilities, transportation or telecommunications providers; or other catastrophic events. such events could make it difficult or impossible to manufacture or deliver products to our customers, receive production materials from our suppliers, or perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our revenue and require significant recovery time and expenditures to resume operations. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, some of our systems are not fully redundant and we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disruptions. we maintain a program of insurance coverage for a variety of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with multiple carriers in numerous jurisdictions. however, one or more of our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. the types and amounts of insurance we obtain vary depending on availability, cost, and decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies have deductibles and exclusions that result in us retaining a level of self-insurance. losses not covered by insurance may be large, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. we operate our own fabrication facilities and, as a result, are vulnerable to manufacturing-related risks. due to the variability in demand for our products, we may be unable to timely respond to reduce costs when demand declines or to increase production when demand increases. our operations have high costs that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, including our costs related to manufacturing, such as facility construction and equipment, r&amp;d, and the employment and training of a highly skilled workforce. if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record excess capacity charges, which would lower our gross margin. our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to write down our long-lived assets, which would increase our expenses. factory-planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of facilities and equipment and cause us to accelerate depreciation. conversely, if product demand increases, we may be unable to add capacity fast enough to meet market demand. our revenue and gross margin can also be affected by the timing of our product introductions and related expenses, including marketing expenses. we are subject to risks associated with the development and implementation of new manufacturing process technology. we may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. production of integrated circuits is a complex process. we are continually engaged in the transition from our existing process to the next-generation process technology. this consistent innovation involves significant expense and carries inherent risks, including difficulties in designing and developing next-generation process technologies, development and production timing delays, lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, and product defects and errata. disruptions in the production process can also result from errors, defects in materials, interruption in our supply of materials or resources, and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. production issues can lead to increased costs and may affect our ability to meet product demand, which could adversely impact our business and the results from operations. we face supply chain risks. we have thousands of suppliers providing materials that we use in production and other aspects of our business. where possible, we seek to have several sources of supply for all of those materials. however, for certain materials, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single location. in addition, consolidation among suppliers could impact the nature, quality, availability, and pricing of the products and services available to us. the inability of suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production processes or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. production could be disrupted by the unavailability of resources used in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, gases, and other materials. the unavailability or reduced availability of materials or resources may require us to reduce production or incur additional costs, which could harm our business and results of operations. 20 table of contents we also rely on third-party providers to manufacture, assemble and test certain components or products, particularly for our networking, mobile and communications, and nand flash memory businesses. if any of these third parties are unable to perform these services on a timely basis, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions that could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, there are regulatory and other requirements, restrictions, and requests from various constituencies regarding sourcing practices and supplier conduct, with a trend toward expanding the scope of materials and locations where materials originate, regulating supplier behaviors, and increasing the required disclosures regarding such matters by public companies. increased regulation and public pressure in this area would cause our compliance costs to increase and could negatively affect our reputation given that we use many materials in the manufacturing of our products and rely on many suppliers to provide these materials, but do not directly control their procurement or employment practices. we are subject to the risks of product defects and errata. product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) may result from problems in our product design or our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. costs from defects and errata could include: writing off some or all of the value of inventory; recalling products that have been shipped; providing product replacements or modifications; and defending against resulting litigation. these costs could be large and may increase expenses and lower gross margin, and result in delay or loss of revenue. our reputation with customers or end users could be damaged as a result of product defects and errata, and product demand could be reduced. the announcement of product defects and errata could cause customers to purchase products from competitors as a result of possible shortages of our components or for other reasons. any of these occurrences could harm our business and financial results. we are subject to risks associated with environmental laws and regulations. the manufacturing and assembly and test of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of ehs laws and regulations. our failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes; reputational challenges; and restrictions on our operations or sales. our failure to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could lead to increased costs or future liabilities. our ability to grow or modify our manufacturing capability in the future may be impeded by environmental regulations, such as air quality and wastewater requirements. environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify product designs, or incur other expenses. many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under environmental laws and regulations. these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter manufacturing and assembly and test processes. climate change may also pose regulatory and environmental risks that could harm our results of operations and affect the way we conduct business. for example, climate change regulation could result in increased manufacturing costs associated with air pollution control requirements, and increased or new monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. we also see the potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change regulations if, for example, utility companies pass on their costs to their customers. furthermore, many of our operations are located in semi-arid regions that may become increasingly vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate change. our fabrication facilities have significant water use and, while we recycle and reuse a portion of the water used, we may have difficulties obtaining sufficient water to fulfill our operational needs due the lack of available infrastructure. 21 table of contents we are subject to ip risks and risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. we may be unable to enforce or protect our ip rights. we regard our patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and other ip rights as important to the success of our business. we rely on ip law as well as confidentiality and licensing agreements with our customers, employees, technology development partners, and others to protect our ip rights. our ability to enforce these rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our ip rights in various countries. when we seek to enforce our rights, we may be subject to claims that the ip rights are invalid, not enforceable, or licensed to the opposing party. our assertion of ip rights may result in the other party seeking to assert claims against us, which could harm our business. governments may adopt regulations and governments or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of ip rights, or governments may require products to meet standards that serve to favor local companies. our inability to enforce our ip rights under any of these circumstances may harm our competitive position and business. in addition, the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in r&amp;d, product development, and marketing could be reduced. our licenses with other companies and participation in industry initiatives may allow competitors to use our patent rights. companies in our industry often bilaterally license patents between each other to settle disputes or as part of business agreements. our competitors may have licenses to our patents, and under current case law, some of the licenses may exhaust our patent rights as to licensed product sales under some circumstances. our participation in industry standards organizations or with other industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to companies that adopt industry-standard specifications. depending on the rules of the organization, we might have to grant these licenses to our patents for little or no cost, and as a result, we may be unable to enforce certain patents against others, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our ip rights may be impaired. third parties may assert claims based on ip rights against us or our products, which could harm our business. we may face claims based on ip rights from individuals and companies, including those who have acquired patent portfolios to assert claims against other companies. we are normally engaged in a number of litigation matters involving ip rights. claims that our products or processes infringe the ip rights of others, whether or not meritorious, could cause us to incur large costs to respond to, defend, and resolve the claims, and they may divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel. in addition, we may face claims based on the theft or unauthorized use or disclosure of third-party trade secrets and other confidential business information or end-user data that we obtain in conducting our business. any such incidents and claims could severely disrupt our business, and we could suffer losses, including the cost of product recalls and returns, and reputational harm. furthermore, we have agreed to indemnify customers for certain ip rights claims against them. as a result of ip rights claims, we could: pay monetary damages, including payments to satisfy indemnification obligations; stop manufacturing, using, selling, offering to sell, or importing products or technology subject to claims; develop other products or technology not subject to claims, which could be time-consuming or costly; and/or enter into settlement and license agreements, which agreements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. these ip rights claims could harm our competitive position, result in expenses, or require us to impair our assets. if we alter or stop production of affected items, our revenue could be harmed. we rely on access to third-party ip, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. many of our products include third-party ip and/or implement industry standards, which may require licenses from third parties. based on past experience and industry practice, we believe such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. however, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or at all. failure to obtain the right to use third-party ip, or to use such ip on commercially reasonable terms, could preclude us from selling certain products or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. 22 table of contents we are subject to the risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. we may face legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. as described in " note 25: contingencies " in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k, we are engaged in a number of litigation and regulatory matters. litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. an unfavorable outcome may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. in addition, regardless of the outcome, litigation can be costly, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations, and distracting to management. we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees. to be competitive, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees. hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees can be intense. to help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based and other performance-based incentive awards such as restricted stock units and cash bonuses. if our share-based or other compensation programs cease to be viewed as competitive and valuable benefits, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. we are subject to cybersecurity and privacy risks. third parties might attempt to gain unauthorized access to our network or seek to compromise our products and services. we regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the internet or to introduce malicious software to our information technology (it) systems. additionally, malicious hackers may attempt to gain unauthorized access and corrupt the processes of hardware and software products that we manufacture and services we provide. due to the widespread use of our products and due to the high profile of our mcafee subsidiary, we or our products and services are a frequent target of computer hackers and organizations that intend to sabotage, take control of, or otherwise corrupt our manufacturing or other processes, products, and services. we are also a target of malicious attackers who attempt to gain access to our network or data centers or those of our customers or end users; steal proprietary information related to our business, products, employees, and customers; or interrupt our systems and services or those of our customers or others. we believe such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication. from time to time we encounter intrusions or attempts at gaining unauthorized access to our products, services, and network. to date, none have resulted in any material adverse impact to our business or operations. in some instances, we, our customers, and the users of our products and services might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. while we seek to detect and investigate all unauthorized attempts and attacks against our network, products, and services, and to prevent their recurrence where practicable through changes to our internal processes and tools and/or changes or patches to our products and services, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats. such incidents, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in our incurring significant costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, reduced inventory value, providing modifications to our products and services, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. in addition, these threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures. publicity about vulnerabilities and attempted or successful incursions could damage our reputation with customers or users, and reduce demand for our products and services. we may be subject to theft, loss, or misuse of personal data about our employees, customers, or other third parties, which could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business could result in significantly increased security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex compliance regulatory environment. costs to comply with and implement these privacy-related and data protection measures could be significant. in addition, our even inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. 23 table of contents we are subject to risks associated with strategic transactions. we invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. we make investments in public and private companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support key business initiatives. many of the securities in which we invest are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. companies in which we invest range from early-stage companies still defining their strategic direction to mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. the success of our investment in any company is typically dependent on the availability to the company of additional funding on favorable terms, or a liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition. if any of the companies in which we invest fail, we could lose all or part of our investment. if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an investment, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize a loss. our acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could fail to achieve strategic objectives, disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements for possible acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as joint ventures. given that our resources are limited, our decision to complete an acquisition has opportunity costs and we may need to forego the prospect of acquiring other companies or technologies that could help us achieve our strategic objectives. in addition to opportunity costs, these transactions involve large challenges and risks, including risks that: the transaction may not advance our business strategy; we may be unable to identify opportunities on terms acceptable to us; we may not realize a satisfactory return; we may experience disruption of our ongoing operations; we may be unable to retain key personnel; we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; acquired businesses may not have adequate controls, processes, and procedures to ensure compliance with laws and regulations, and our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities; we may have difficulty entering new market segments; we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses; and/or there may be unknown, underestimated, and/or undisclosed commitments or liabilities. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty selling on acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed-upon terms and financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions. these circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expense, or we may sell a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. if we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to factors such as: failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals; ip disputes or other litigation; or difficulties obtaining financing for the transaction. we are subject to sales-related risks. we face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties. we sell a significant portion of our products through third parties such as distributors, value-added resellers, oems, internet service providers, and channel partners (collectively referred to as distributors). using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. distributors may sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to focus distributors on the sale of our products. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. failure to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. 24 table of contents we face risks related to business transactions with u.s. government entities. we receive proceeds from services and products we provide to the u.s. government. u.s. government demand and payment may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations. u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight, including special rules on accounting, ip rights, expenses, reviews, information handling, and security. failure to comply with these rules could result in civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, fines, and suspensions, or debarment from future u.s. government business. our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying accounting policies. the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying accounting policies have a large impact on our results of operations. for more information, see "critical accounting estimates" in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. these methods, estimates, and judgments are subject to large risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and changes could affect our results of operations. changes in our effective tax rate may reduce our net income. a number of factors may increase our effective tax rates, which could reduce our net income, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and in deferred tax valuation allowances; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including changes in the u.s. to the taxation of manufacturing enterprises and of non-u.s. income and expenses; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; and our decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we may have fluctuations in the amount and frequency of our stock repurchases. the amount, timing, and other execution of our stock repurchase program may fluctuate based on our priorities for the use of cash for other purposes, such as investing in our business, including operational spending, capital spending, and acquisitions, and returning cash to our stockholders as dividend payments, and because of changes in cash flows and changes in tax laws. workforce restructuring actions may be disruptive to our operations and adversely affect our financial results. in response to the business environment and to accomplish our strategic objectives, from time to time we may restructure our operations or make other adjustments to our workforce. such workforce changes can result in restructuring charges in addition to those described in " note 13: restructuring and asset impairment charges " in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. such workforce changes can also temporarily reduce workforce productivity, which could be disruptive to our business and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected cost savings or other benefits of our restructuring plans, or do so within the expected time frame. there are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls. we do not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. a control system, no matter how well-designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. the design of a control system must reflect the fact that resource constraints exist, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. the design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls to future periods are subject to risks. over time, controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. if our controls become inadequate, we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, our reputation may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, and the market price of our stock could decline. 25 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are affected by changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. all of the following potential changes are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions as of december 27, 2014 , and december 28, 2013 . actual results may differ materially. currency exchange rates in general, we economically hedge currency risks of non-u.s.-dollar-denominated investments in debt instruments and loans receivable with currency forward contracts or currency interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these non-u.s.-currency investments are generally offset by corresponding gains and losses on the related hedging instruments. substantially all of our revenue is transacted in u.s. dollars. however, a significant amount of our operating expenditures and capital purchases are incurred in or exposed to other currencies, primarily the euro, the japanese yen, the chinese yuan, and the israeli shekel . we have established balance sheet and forecasted transaction currency risk management programs to protect against fluctuations in the fair value and the volatility of the functional currency equivalent of future cash flows caused by changes in exchange rates. we generally utilize currency forward contracts in these hedging programs. these programs reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements . for further information, see "risk factors" in part i, item 1a of this form 10-k. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that a weighted average adverse change of 20% in currency exchange rates could be experienced in the near term. such an adverse change, after taking into account balance sheet hedges only and offsetting recorded monetary asset and liability positions, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less than $50 million as of december 27, 2014 (less than $40 million as of december 28, 2013 ). interest rates we generally hedge interest rate risks of fixed-rate debt instruments with interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these investments are generally offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments. we are exposed to interest rate risk related to our investment portfolio and indebtedness. our indebtedness includes our debt issuances and the liability associated with a long-term patent cross-license agreement with nvidia corporation. the primary objective of our investments in debt instruments is to preserve principal while maximizing yields, which generally track the u.s. dollar three-month libor. a hypothetical decrease in interest rates of up to 1.0% would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our indebtedness of approximately $1.0 billion as of december 27, 2014 (an increase of approximately $1.1 billion as of december 28, 2013 ). a hypothetical decrease in benchmark interest rates of up to 1.0% , after taking into account investment hedges, would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our investment portfolio of approximately $10 million as of december 27, 2014 (an increase of approximately $10 million as of december 28, 2013 ). the fluctuations in fair value of our investment portfolio and indebtedness reflect only the direct impact of the change in interest rates. other economic variables, such as equity market fluctuations and changes in relative credit risk, could result in a significantly higher decline in the fair value of our net investment position. for further information on how credit risk is factored into the valuation of our investment portfolio and debt issuances, see " note 4: fair value " in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. equity prices our investments include marketable equity securities and equity derivative instruments. we typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our equity market exposure through hedging activities at the inception of our investments. before we enter into hedge arrangements, we evaluate legal, market, and economic factors, as well as the expected timing of disposal, to determine whether hedging is appropriate. our equity market risk management program may include equity derivatives with or without hedge accounting designation that utilize warrants, equity options, or other equity derivatives. we also utilize total return swaps to offset changes in liabilities related to the equity market risks of certain deferred compensation arrangements. gains and losses from changes in the fair value of these total return swaps are generally offset by the losses and gains on the related liabilities . 50 table of contents as of december 27, 2014 , the fair value of our marketable equity investments and our equity derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $7.1 billion ( $6.3 billion as of december 28, 2013 ). substantially all of our marketable equity investments portfolio as of december 27, 2014 was concentrated in our investment in asml of $6.9 billion ( $5.9 billion as of december 28, 2013 ). our marketable equity method investments are excluded from our analysis, as the carrying value does not fluctuate based on market price changes unless an other-than-temporary impairment is deemed necessary. to determine reasonably possible decreases in the market value of our marketable equity investments, we have analyzed the historical market price sensitivity of our marketable equity investment portfolio. assuming a decline of 30% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, the aggregate value of our marketable equity investments could decrease by approximately $2.1 billion , based on the value as of december 27, 2014 (a decrease in value of approximately $1.6 billion , based on the value as of december 28, 2013 using an assumed decline of 25% ). many of the same factors that could result in an adverse movement of equity market prices affect our non-marketable equity investments, although we cannot always quantify the impact directly. financial markets are volatile, which could negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of our ability to realize value in our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. these types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can be no assurance that any specific company will grow or become successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our investment. our non-marketable equity investments, excluding investments accounted for under the equity method, had a carrying amount of $1.8 billion as of december 27, 2014 ( $1.3 billion as of december 28, 2013 ). the carrying amount of our non-marketable equity method investments was $1.4 billion as of december 27, 2014 ( $1.0 billion as of december 28, 2013 ). the majority of our non-marketable equity method investments balance as of december 27, 2014 was concentrated in our imft and cloudera (which was purchased during 2014 ) investments of $713 million and $280 million , respectively ( $646 million for imft as of december 28, 2013 ). commodity price risk although we operate facilities that consume commodities, we are not materially affected by commodity price risk. we have established forecasted transaction risk management programs to protect against fluctuations in the fair value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in commodity prices. in addition, we have sourcing plans in place for our key commodities that mitigate the risk of a potential supplier concentration. for further information on commodity price risk, see " note 6: derivative financial instruments " in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. 51 table of contentsrisk factors 20 risk factors the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. these risk factors do not identify all risks that we face; our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. due to risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, our past financial results may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. you should also refer to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, including "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and our financial statements and the related notes. changes in product demand can harm our results of operation and financial condition. demand for our products is variable and hard to predict. changes in the demand for our products may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to write down the value of our assets. important factors that could lead to variation in the demand for our products include changes in: business conditions, including downturns in the computing industry, or in the global or regional economies; consumer confidence or income levels caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in government borrowing, taxation, or spending policies; the credit market; or expected inflation, employment, and energy or other commodity prices; the level of our customers' inventories; competitive and pricing pressures, including actions taken by competitors; customer product needs; market acceptance and industry support of our new and maturing products; and the technology supply chain, including supply constraints caused by natural disasters or other events. we face significant competition. the industry in which we operate is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer needs, and frequent product introductions and improvements. if we do not anticipate and respond to these developments, our competitive position may weaken, and our products or technologies might be uncompetitive or obsolete. in recent years, our business focus has expanded and now includes the design and production of platforms for tablets, phones, and other devices across the compute continuum, including products for the internet of things, and related services. as a result, we face new sources of competition, including, in certain of these market segments, from incumbent competitors with established customer bases and greater brand recognition. to be successful, we need to cultivate new industry relationships with customers and partners in these market segments. in addition, we must continually improve the cost, integration, and energy efficiency of our products, as well as expand our software capabilities to provide customers with comprehensive computing solutions. despite our ongoing efforts, there is no guarantee that we will achieve or maintain consumer and market demand or acceptance for our products and services in these various market segments. to compete successfully, we must maintain a successful r&amp;d effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes ahead of competitors. for example, we invest substantially in our network of manufacturing and assembly and test facilities, including the construction of new fabrication facilities to support smaller transistor geometries and larger wafers. our r&amp;d efforts are critical to our success and are aimed at solving complex problems, and we do not expect all of our projects to be successful. we may be unable to develop and market new products successfully, and the products we invest in and develop may not be well-received by customers. our r&amp;d investments may not generate significant operating income or contribute to our future operating results for several years, and such contributions may not meet our expectations or even cover the costs of such investments. additionally, the products and technologies offered by others may affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. if we are not able to compete effectively, our financial results will be adversely affected, including increased costs and reduced revenue and gross margin, and we may be required to accelerate the write-down of the value of certain assets. 20 table of contents changes in the mix of products sold may harm our financial results. prices differ widely among the platforms we offer in our various market segments due to differences in features offered or manufacturing costs. for example, product offerings range from lower-priced and entry-level platforms, such as those based on intel quark or intel atom processors, to higher-end platforms based on intel xeon and intel itanium processors. if demand shifts from our higher-priced to lower-priced platforms in any of our market segments, our gross margin and revenue would decrease. in addition, when products are introduced, they tend to have higher costs because of initial development costs and lower production volumes relative to the previous product generation, which can impact gross margin. we operate globally and are subject to significant risks in many jurisdictions. global or regional conditions may harm our financial results. we have manufacturing, assembly and test, r&amp;d, sales, and other operations in many countries, and some of our business activities may be concentrated in one or more geographic areas. moreover, sales outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 80% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended december 26, 2015 . as a result, our operations and our financial results, including our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products, may be adversely affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including: global and local economic conditions; geopolitical and security issues, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity; natural disasters, public health issues, and other catastrophic events; inefficient infrastructure and other disruptions, such as supply chain interruptions and large-scale outages or unreliable provision of services from utilities, transportation, data hosting, or telecommunications providers; government restrictions on, or nationalization of our operations in any country, or restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings from a particular country; differing employment practices and labor issues; formal or informal imposition of new or revised export and/or import and doing-business regulations, which could be changed without notice; ineffective legal protection of our ip rights in certain countries; and local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices. we are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, which may differ among jurisdictions, affecting our operations in areas including, but not limited to: ip ownership and infringement, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, advertising, employment, environment, health, and safety. compliance with such requirements may be onerous and expensive, and may otherwise impact our business operations negatively. although we have policies, controls, and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, suppliers, and/or agents will not violate such laws or our policies. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. we may be affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in currency exchange rates. although most of our sales occur in u.s. dollars, expenses may be paid in local currencies. an increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the u.s. where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as overseas capital expenditures. we also conduct certain investing and financing activities in local currencies. our hedging programs reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements; therefore, changes in exchange rates could harm our results of operations and financial condition. 21 table of contents catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. our operations or systems could be disrupted by natural disasters; geopolitical conditions; terrorist activity; public health issues; cybersecurity incidents; interruptions of service from utilities, transportation or telecommunications providers; or other catastrophic events. such events could make it difficult or impossible to manufacture or deliver products to our customers, receive production materials from our suppliers, or perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our revenue and require significant recovery time and expenditures to resume operations. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to enable us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, some of our systems are not fully redundant and we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disruptions. we maintain a program of insurance coverage for a variety of property, casualty, and other risks. the types and amounts of insurance we obtain vary depending on availability, cost, and decisions with respect to risk retention. some of our policies have large deductibles and broad exclusions. in addition, one or more of our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. losses not covered by insurance may be large, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. we operate our own fabrication facilities and, as a result, are vulnerable to manufacturing-related risks. due to the variability in demand for our products, we may be unable to timely respond to reduce costs when demand declines or to increase production when demand increases. our operations have high costs that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, including our costs related to manufacturing, such as facility construction and equipment, r&amp;d, and the employment and training of a highly skilled workforce. if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record excess capacity charges, which would lower our gross margin. our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to write down our long-lived assets, which would increase our expenses. factory-planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of facilities and equipment and cause us to accelerate depreciation. conversely, if product demand increases, we may be unable to add capacity fast enough to meet market demand. our revenue and gross margin can also be affected by the timing of our product introductions and related expenses, including marketing expenses. we are subject to risks associated with the development and implementation of new manufacturing process technology. we may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. production of integrated circuits is a complex process. we are continually engaged in the transition from our existing process to the next-generation process technology. this consistent innovation involves significant expense and carries inherent risks, including difficulties in designing and developing next-generation process technologies, development and production timing delays, lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, and product defects and errata. disruptions in the production process can also result from errors, defects in materials, delays in obtaining or revising operating permits and licenses, interruption in our supply of materials or resources, and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. production issues can lead to increased costs and may affect our ability to meet product demand, which could adversely impact our business and the results from operations. we face supply chain risks. thousands of suppliers provide materials that we use in production and other aspects of our business. where possible, we seek to have several sources of supply for all of those materials. however, for certain materials, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single location. in addition, consolidation among suppliers could impact the nature, quality, availability, and pricing of the products and services available to us. the inability of suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production processes or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. production could be disrupted by the unavailability of resources used in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, gases, and other materials. the unavailability or reduced availability of materials or resources may require us to reduce production or incur additional costs, which could harm our business and results of operations. 22 table of contents we also rely on third-party providers to manufacture and assemble and test certain components or products, particularly those related to networking, mobile and communications, and nand flash memory. if any of these third parties are unable to perform these services on a timely basis, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions that could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, there are regulatory and other requirements, restrictions, and requests from various constituencies regarding sourcing practices and supplier conduct, with a trend toward expanding the scope of materials and locations where materials originate, regulating supplier behaviors, and increasing the required disclosures regarding such matters by public companies. increased regulation and public pressure in this area would cause our compliance costs to increase and could negatively affect our reputation given that we use many materials in the manufacturing of our products and rely on many suppliers to provide these materials, but do not directly control their procurement or employment practices. we are subject to the risks of product defects and errata. product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) may result from problems in our product design or our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. components and products we purchase or license from third-party suppliers may also contain defects. costs from defects and errata could include: writing off some or all of the value of inventory; recalling products that have been shipped; providing product replacements or modifications; and defending against resulting litigation. these costs could be large and may increase expenses and lower gross margin, and result in delay or loss of revenue. any product defects, errata, or other issues that we do not detect or fix could also damage our reputation, negatively affect product demand, delay product releases, or result in legal liability. the announcement of product defects and errata could cause customers to purchase products from competitors as a result of possible shortages of our components or for other reasons. any of these occurrences could harm our business and financial results. we are subject to risks associated with environmental laws and regulations. the manufacturing and assembly and test of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of ehs laws and regulations. our failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes; reputational challenges; and restrictions on our operations or sales. our failure to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could lead to increased costs or future liabilities. our ability to expand or modify our manufacturing capability in the future may be impeded by environmental regulations, such as air quality and wastewater requirements. environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify product designs, or incur other expenses. many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under environmental laws and regulations. these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter manufacturing and assembly and test processes. climate change may also pose regulatory and environmental risks that could harm our results of operations and affect the way we conduct business. for example, climate change regulation could result in increased manufacturing costs associated with air pollution control requirements, and increased or new monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. we also see the potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change regulations if, for example, utility companies pass on their costs to their customers. furthermore, many of our operations are located in semi-arid regions that may become increasingly vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate change. our fabrication facilities require significant water use and, while we recycle and reuse a portion of the water used, we may have difficulties obtaining sufficient water to fulfill our operational needs due the lack of available infrastructure. 23 table of contents we are subject to ip risks and risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. we may be unable to enforce or protect our ip rights. we regard our patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and other ip rights as important to the success of our business. we rely on ip law as well as confidentiality and licensing agreements with our customers, employees, technology development partners, and others to protect our ip rights. our ability to enforce these rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our ip rights in various countries. when we seek to enforce our rights, we may be subject to claims that the ip rights are invalid, not enforceable, or licensed to the opposing party. our assertion of ip rights may result in the other party seeking to assert claims against us, which could harm our business. governments may adopt regulations and governments or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of ip rights, or governments may require products to meet standards that serve to favor local companies. our inability to enforce our ip rights under any of these circumstances may harm our competitive position and business. in addition, the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in r&amp;d, product development, and marketing could be reduced. our licenses with other companies and participation in industry initiatives may allow competitors to use our patent rights. companies in our industry often bilaterally license patents between each other to settle disputes or as part of business agreements. our competitors may have licenses to our patents, and under current case law, some of the licenses may exhaust our patent rights as to licensed product sales under some circumstances. our participation in industry standards organizations or with other industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to companies that adopt industry-standard specifications. depending on the rules of the organization, we might have to grant these licenses to our patents for little or no cost, and as a result, we may be unable to enforce certain patents against others, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our ip rights may be impaired. third parties may assert claims based on ip rights against us or our products, which could harm our business. we may face claims based on ip rights from individuals and companies, including those who have acquired patent portfolios to assert claims against other companies. we are normally engaged in a number of litigation matters involving ip rights. claims that our products or processes infringe the ip rights of others, whether or not meritorious, could cause us to incur large costs to respond to, defend, and resolve, and they may divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel. in addition, we may face claims based on the theft or unauthorized use or disclosure of third-party trade secrets and other confidential business information or end-user data that we obtain in conducting our business. any such incidents and claims could severely disrupt our business, and we could suffer losses, including the cost of product recalls and returns, and reputational harm. furthermore, we have agreed to indemnify customers for certain ip rights claims against them. as a result of ip rights claims, we could: pay monetary damages, including payments to satisfy indemnification obligations; stop manufacturing, using, selling, offering to sell, or importing products or technology subject to claims; develop other products or technology not subject to claims, which could be time-consuming or costly; and/or enter into settlement and license agreements, which agreements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. these ip rights claims could harm our competitive position, result in expenses, or require us to impair our assets. if we alter or stop production of affected items, our revenue could be harmed. we rely on access to third-party ip, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. many of our products include third-party ip and/or implement industry standards, which may require licenses from third parties. based on past experience and industry practice, we believe such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. however, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or at all. failure to obtain the right to use third-party ip, or to use such ip on commercially reasonable terms, could preclude us from selling certain products or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. 24 table of contents we are subject to the risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. we may face legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. as described in " note 25: contingencies " in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k, we are engaged in a number of litigation and regulatory matters. litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. an unfavorable outcome may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. in addition, regardless of the outcome, litigation can be costly, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations, and distracting to management. we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees. to be competitive, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees. hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees can be intense. to help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based and other performance-based incentive awards such as restricted stock units (rsus) and cash bonuses. if our share-based or other compensation programs cease to be viewed as competitive and valuable benefits, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. we are subject to cybersecurity and privacy risks. third parties attempt to gain unauthorized access to our network, products, services, and infrastructure. we regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the internet or to introduce malicious software to our information technology (it) systems. additionally, malicious hackers may attempt to gain unauthorized access and corrupt the processes of hardware and software products that we manufacture and services we provide. due to the widespread use of our products and the high profile of our commercial security products, we or our products and services are a frequent target of computer hackers and organizations that intend to sabotage, take control of, or otherwise corrupt our manufacturing or other processes, products, and services. we are also a target of malicious attackers who attempt to gain access to our network or data centers or those of our customers or end users; steal proprietary information related to our business, products, employees, and customers; or interrupt our systems and services or those of our customers or others. we believe such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication. from time to time, we encounter intrusions or unauthorized access to our network, products, services, or infrastructure. to date, none have resulted in any material adverse impact to our business or operations. in some instances, we, our customers, and the users of our products and services might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. while we seek to detect and investigate all unauthorized attempts and attacks against our network, products, and services, and to prevent their recurrence where practicable through changes to our internal processes and tools and/or changes or patches to our products and services, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats. such incidents, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in our incurring significant costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, reduced inventory value, providing modifications to our products and services, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. in addition, these threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures. publicity about vulnerabilities and attempted or successful incursions could damage our reputation with customers or users, and reduce demand for our products and services. we may be subject to theft, loss, or misuse of personal data about our employees, customers, or other third parties, which could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business could result in significantly increased security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. costs to comply with and implement these privacy-related and data protection measures could be significant. in addition, even our inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. 25 table of contents we are subject to risks associated with transactions. we invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. we make investments in public and private companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support key business initiatives. many of the instruments in which we invest are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. companies in which we invest range from early-stage companies still defining their strategic direction to mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. the success of our investment in any company is typically dependent on the availability to the company of additional funding on favorable terms, or a liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition. if any of the companies in which we invest fail, we could lose all or part of our investment. if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an investment, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize a loss. our acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could fail to achieve strategic objectives, disrupt our ongoing business, and harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements for possible acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as joint ventures. given that our resources are limited, our decision to complete an acquisition has opportunity costs and we may need to forgo the prospect of acquiring other companies or technologies that could help us achieve our strategic objectives. in addition to opportunity costs, these transactions involve large challenges and risks, including risks that: the transaction may not advance our business strategy; we may be unable to identify opportunities on terms acceptable to us; we may not realize a satisfactory return; we may experience disruption of our ongoing operations; we may be unable to retain key personnel; we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; acquired businesses may not have adequate controls, processes, and procedures to ensure compliance with laws and regulations, and our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities; we may have difficulty entering new market segments; we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses; and/or there may be unknown, underestimated, and/or undisclosed commitments or liabilities. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty selling on acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed-upon terms and financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions. these circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expense, or we may sell a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. if we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to factors such as: failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals; ip disputes or other litigation; or difficulties obtaining financing for the transaction. we are subject to sales-related risks. we face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties. we sell a significant portion of our products through third parties such as distributors, value-added resellers, oems, odms, internet service providers, and channel partners (collectively referred to as distributors). using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. distributors may sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to focus distributors on the sale of our products. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. failure to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. 26 table of contents we face risks related to business transactions with u.s. government entities. we receive proceeds from services and products we provide to the u.s. government. u.s. government demand and payment may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations. u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight, including special rules on accounting, ip rights, expenses, reviews, information handling, and security. failure to comply with these rules could result in civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, fines, and suspensions, or debarment from future u.s. government business. our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying accounting policies. the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying accounting policies have a large impact on our results of operations. for more information, see "critical accounting estimates" in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. these methods, estimates, and judgments are subject to large risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and changes could affect our results of operations. changes in our effective tax rate may reduce our net income. a number of factors may increase our effective tax rates, which could reduce our net income, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and in deferred tax valuation allowances; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including changes in the u.s. to the taxation of manufacturing enterprises and of non-u.s. income and expenses; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; and our decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we may have fluctuations in the amount and frequency of our stock repurchases. the amount, timing, and execution of our stock repurchase program may fluctuate based on our priorities for the use of cash for other purposes such as investing in our business, including operational spending, capital spending, and acquisitions, and returning cash to our stockholders as dividend payments and because of changes in cash flows and changes in tax laws. workforce restructuring actions may be disruptive to our operations and adversely affect our financial results. in response to the business environment and to accomplish our strategic objectives, from time to time we may restructure our operations or make other adjustments to our workforce. such workforce changes can result in restructuring charges in addition to those described in " note 13: restructuring and asset impairment charges " in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. such workforce changes can also temporarily reduce workforce productivity, which could be disruptive to our business and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected cost savings or other benefits of our restructuring plans, or do so within the expected time frame. there are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls. we do not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. a control system, no matter how well-designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. the design of a control system must reflect the fact that resource constraints exist, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. the design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls to future periods are subject to risks. over time, controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. if our controls become inadequate, we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, our reputation may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, and the market price of our stock could decline. 27 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are affected by changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. all of the following potential changes are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions as of december 26, 2015 , and december 27, 2014 . actual results may differ materially. currency exchange rates in general, we economically hedge currency risks of non-u.s.-dollar-denominated investments in debt instruments and loans receivable with currency forward contracts or currency interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these non-u.s.-currency investments are generally offset by corresponding gains and losses on the related hedging instruments. substantially all of our revenue is transacted in u.s. dollars. however, a significant portion of our operating expenditures and capital purchases are incurred in or exposed to other currencies, primarily the euro, the chinese yuan, the japanese yen, and the israeli shekel . we have established balance sheet and forecasted transaction currency risk management programs to protect against fluctuations in the fair value and the volatility of the functional currency equivalent of future cash flows caused by changes in exchange rates. we generally utilize currency forward contracts in these hedging programs. these programs reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements . for further information, see "risk factors" in part i, item 1a of this form 10-k. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that a weighted average adverse change of 20% in currency exchange rates could be experienced in the near term. such an adverse change, after taking into account balance sheet hedges only and offsetting recorded monetary asset and liability positions, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less than $75 million as of december 26, 2015 (less than $50 million as of december 27, 2014 ). interest rates we generally hedge interest rate risks of fixed-rate debt investments with interest rate swaps, and we may elect to hedge interest rate risks of our indebtedness. gains and losses on these instruments are generally offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments. we are exposed to interest rate risk related to our investment portfolio and debt issuances. the primary objective of our investments in debt instruments is to preserve principal while maximizing yields, which generally track the u.s. dollar three-month libor. a hypothetical decrease in benchmark interest rates of up to 1.0% , after taking into account investment hedges, would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our investment portfolio of approximately $15 million as of december 26, 2015 (an increase of approximately $10 million as of december 27, 2014 ). after taking into account interest rate and currency swaps, a hypothetical decrease in interest rates of up to 1.0% would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our indebtedness of approximately $1.6 billion as of december 26, 2015 (an increase of approximately $1.0 billion as of december 27, 2014 ). the increase from december 27, 2014 was primarily driven by the inclusion of $9.5 billion of senior unsecured notes issued in q3 and q4 2015. the fluctuations in fair value of our investment portfolio and indebtedness reflect only the direct impact of the change in interest rates. other economic variables, such as equity market fluctuations and changes in relative credit risk, could result in a significantly higher decline in the fair value of our net investment position. for further information on how credit risk is factored into the valuation of our investment portfolio and debt issuances, see " note 4: fair value " in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. equity prices our investments include marketable equity securities and equity derivative instruments. we typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our equity market exposure through hedging activities at the inception of our investments. before we enter into hedge arrangements, we evaluate legal, market, and economic factors, as well as the expected timing of disposal, to determine whether hedging is appropriate. our equity market risk management program may include equity derivatives with or without hedge accounting designation that utilize warrants, equity options, or other equity derivatives. we also utilize total return swaps to offset changes in liabilities related to the equity market risks of certain deferred compensation arrangements. gains and losses from changes in fair value of these total return swaps are generally offset by the losses and gains on the related liabilities . 56 table of contents as of december 26, 2015 , the fair value of our marketable equity investments and our equity derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $6.0 billion ( $7.1 billion as of december 27, 2014 ). substantially all of our marketable equity investments portfolio as of december 26, 2015 was concentrated in our investment in asml of $5.7 billion ( $6.9 billion as of december 27, 2014 ). our marketable equity method investments are excluded from our analysis, as the carrying value does not fluctuate based on market price changes unless an other-than-temporary impairment is deemed necessary. to determine reasonably possible decreases in the market value of our marketable equity investments, we have analyzed the historical market price sensitivity of our marketable equity investment portfolio. assuming a decline of 30% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, the aggregate value of our marketable equity investments could decrease by approximately $1.8 billion , based on the value as of december 26, 2015 (a decrease in value of approximately $2.1 billion , based on the value as of december 27, 2014 using an assumed decline of 30% ). many of the same factors that could result in an adverse movement of equity market prices affect our non-marketable equity investments, although we cannot always quantify the impact directly. financial markets are volatile, which could negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of our ability to realize value in our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. these types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can be no assurance that any specific company will grow or become successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our investment. our non-marketable cost method equity investments had a carrying amount of $2.9 billion as of december 26, 2015 ( $1.8 billion as of december 27, 2014 ) and included our investment in unispreadtrum (which was made in 2015) and cloudera of $966 million and $454 million , respectively ( $454 million for cloudera as of december 27, 2014 ). the carrying amount of our non-marketable equity method investments was $1.6 billion as of december 26, 2015 ( $1.4 billion as of december 27, 2014 ). a majority of our non-marketable equity method investments balance as of december 26, 2015 was concentrated in our imft and cloudera investments of $872 million and $256 million , respectively ( $713 million and $280 million for imft and cloudera, respectively, as of december 27, 2014 ). commodity price risk although we operate facilities that consume commodities, we are not directly affected by commodity price risk to a material degree. we have established forecasted transaction risk management programs to protect against fluctuations in the fair value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in commodity prices. in addition, we have sourcing plans in place for our key commodities that mitigate the risk of a potential supplier concentration. for further information on commodity price risk, see " note 6: derivative financial instruments " in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. 57risk factors 15 risk factors the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. these risk factors do not identify all risks that we face; our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. due to risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, our past financial results may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. refer also to the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k, including "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and our financial statements and the related notes. changes in product demand can adversely affect our financial results. demand for our products is variable and hard to predict. changes in the demand for our products may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to write down the value of our assets. our platform products are used across different market segments, and demand for our platforms may vary within or among our client computing, data center, internet of things, and other market segments. it is difficult to anticipate the impact of these changes, as demand may increase in one or more market segments while decreasing in others. important factors that could lead to variation in the demand for our products include changes in: business conditions, including downturns in the computing industry, or in the global or regional economies; consumer confidence or income levels caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in government borrowing, taxation, or spending policies; the credit market; or expected inflation, employment, and energy or other commodity prices; the level of our customers' inventories; competitive and pricing pressures, including actions taken by competitors; customer product needs; market acceptance and industry support of our new and maturing products; and the technology supply chain, including supply constraints caused by natural disasters or other events. we face significant competition. the industry in which we operate is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological and market developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer needs, and frequent product introductions and improvements. if we do not anticipate and respond to these developments, our competitive position may weaken, and our products or technologies might be uncompetitive or obsolete. additionally, a number of business combinations, including mergers, asset acquisitions and strategic partnerships, in the semiconductor industry have occurred over the last several years, and more could occur in the future. consolidation in the industry could lead to fewer customers, partners or suppliers, any of which could negatively affect our financial results. in recent years, our business focus has expanded and now includes the design and production of platforms and other products for the data center, internet of things, and memory market segments, including fpga products, connectivity products, and a number of other products and services for a wide range of connected devices. as a result, we face new sources of competition, including, in certain of these market segments, from incumbent competitors with established customer bases and greater brand recognition. to be successful, we need to cultivate new industry relationships with customers and partners in these market segments. in addition, we must continually improve the cost, integration, and energy efficiency of our products, as well as expand our software capabilities to provide customers with comprehensive computing solutions. despite our ongoing efforts, there is no guarantee that we will achieve or maintain consumer and market demand or acceptance for our products and services in these various market segments. 15 table of contents to compete successfully, we must maintain a successful r&amp;d effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes ahead of competitors. for example, we invest substantially in our network of manufacturing and assembly and test facilities, including the construction of new fabrication facilities to support smaller transistor geometries and larger wafers. our r&amp;d efforts are critical to our success and are aimed at solving complex problems, and we do not expect all of our projects to be successful. we may be unable to develop and market new products successfully, and the products we invest in and develop may not be well-received by customers. our r&amp;d investments may not generate significant operating income or contribute to our future operating results for several years, and such contributions may not meet our expectations or even cover the costs of such investments. additionally, the products and technologies offered by others may affect demand for, or pricing of, our products. if we are not able to compete effectively, our financial results will be adversely affected, including increased costs and reduced revenue and gross margin, and we may be required to accelerate the write-down of the value of certain assets. changes in the mix of products sold may harm our financial results. our pricing and margins vary across our products and market segments due to differences in product features or manufacturing costs. for example, our platform product offerings range from lower-priced and entry-level platforms, such as those based on intel quark or intel atom processors, to higher-end platforms based on intel xeon processors. if demand shifts from our higher-priced to lower-priced platforms in any of our market segments, our gross margin and revenue would decrease. in addition, when products are introduced, they tend to have higher costs because of initial development costs and lower production volumes relative to the previous product generation, which can impact gross margin. we operate globally and are subject to significant risks in many jurisdictions. global or regional conditions may harm our financial results. we have manufacturing, assembly and test, r&amp;d, sales, and other operations in many countries, and some of our business activities may be concentrated in one or more geographic areas. moreover, sales outside the u.s. accounted for approximately 78% of our revenue for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2016 . as a result, our operations and our financial results, including our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products, may be adversely affected by a number of factors outside of our control, including: global and local economic conditions; geopolitical and security issues, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political instability, human rights concerns, and terrorist activity; natural disasters, public health issues, and other catastrophic events; inefficient infrastructure and other disruptions, such as supply chain interruptions and large-scale outages or unreliable provision of services from utilities, transportation, data hosting, or telecommunications providers; government restrictions on, or nationalization of our operations in any country, or restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings from a particular country; differing employment practices and labor issues; formal or informal imposition of new or revised export and/or import and doing-business regulations, including trade sanctions and tariffs, which could be changed without notice; ineffective legal protection of our ip rights in certain countries; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices; and increased uncertainty regarding social, political, immigration and trade policies in the u.s. and abroad, such as recent u.s. legislation and policies and the united kingdom's referendum to withdraw from the european union ("brexit"). we are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, which may differ among jurisdictions, affecting our operations in areas including, but not limited to: ip ownership and infringement; tax; import and export requirements; anti-corruption; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; data privacy requirements; anti-competition; advertising; employment; product regulations; environment, health, and safety requirements; and consumer laws. compliance with such requirements may be onerous and expensive, and may otherwise impact our business operations negatively. although we have policies, controls, and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, suppliers, and/or agents will not violate such laws or our policies. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. 16 table of contents we may be affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we are potentially exposed to adverse as well as beneficial movements in currency exchange rates. although most of our sales occur in u.s. dollars, expenses may be paid in local currencies. an increase in the value of the dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the u.s. where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as overseas capital expenditures. we also conduct certain investing and financing activities in local currencies. our hedging programs reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements; therefore, changes in exchange rates could harm our results of operations and financial condition. catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. our operations or systems could be disrupted by natural disasters; industrial accidents; geopolitical conditions; terrorist activity; public health issues; cybersecurity incidents; interruptions of service from utilities, transportation, or telecommunications providers; or other catastrophic events. such events could make it difficult or impossible to manufacture or deliver products to our customers, receive production materials from our suppliers, or perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our revenue and require significant recovery time and expenditures to resume operations. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to enable us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, some of our systems are not fully redundant and we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disruptions. we maintain a program of insurance coverage for a variety of property, casualty, and other risks. the types and amounts of insurance we obtain vary depending on availability, cost, and decisions with respect to risk retention. some of our policies have large deductibles and broad exclusions. in addition, one or more of our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. losses not covered by insurance may be large, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. we are vulnerable to product and manufacturing-related risks. due to the variability in demand for our products and the complexity of our manufacturing operations, we may be unable to timely respond to fluctuations in demand. our operations have high costs that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, including our costs related to manufacturing, such as facility construction and equipment, r&amp;d, and the employment and training of a highly skilled workforce. if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record excess capacity charges, which would lower our gross margin. our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to write down our long-lived assets, which would increase our expenses. factory-planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of facilities and equipment and cause us to accelerate depreciation. conversely, if product demand increases, we may be unable to add capacity fast enough to meet market demand. our revenue and gross margin can also be affected by the timing of our product introductions and related expenses, including marketing expenses. we are subject to risks associated with the development and implementation of new manufacturing process technology. we may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. production of integrated circuits is a complex process. we are continually engaged in the transition from our existing process to the next-generation process technology. this consistent innovation involves significant expense and carries inherent risks, including difficulties in designing and developing next-generation process technologies, development and production timing delays, lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, and product defects and errata. disruptions in the production process can also result from errors, defects in materials, delays in obtaining or revising operating permits and licenses, interruption in our supply of materials or resources, and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. production issues can lead to increased costs and may affect our ability to meet product demand, which could adversely impact our business and the results from operations. 17 table of contents we face supply chain risks. thousands of suppliers provide materials and equipment that we use in production and other aspects of our business. where possible, we seek to have several sources of supply for all of those materials. however, for certain materials, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single location. in addition, consolidation among suppliers could impact the nature, quality, availability, and pricing of the products and services available to us. the inability of suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production processes or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. production could be disrupted by the unavailability of resources used in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, gases, and other materials. the unavailability or reduced availability of materials or resources may require us to reduce production or incur additional costs, which could harm our business and results of operations. our manufacturing operations and ability to meet product demand may also be impacted by ip or other litigation between our suppliers, where an injunction against intel or a supplier could interrupt the availability of goods or services supplied to intel by others. we also rely on third-party providers to manufacture and assemble and test certain components or products, particularly those related to networking, mobile and communications, programmable semiconductor solutions, and nand flash memory. if any of these third parties are unable to perform these services on a timely or cost-effective basis, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions that could adversely affect our financial results. in addition, there are regulatory and other requirements, restrictions, and requests from various constituencies regarding sourcing practices and supplier conduct, with a trend toward expanding the scope of materials and locations where materials originate, regulating supplier behaviors, and increasing the required disclosures regarding such matters by public companies. increased regulation and public pressure in this area would cause our compliance costs to increase and could negatively affect our reputation given that we use many materials in the manufacturing of our products and rely on many suppliers to provide these materials, but do not directly control their procurement or employment practices. we are subject to the risks of product defects, errata or other product issues. product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) may result from problems in our product design or our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. components and products we purchase or license from third-party suppliers, or attain through acquisitions, may also contain defects. we could face risks if products that we design, manufacture or sell, or that include our technology, cause personal injury or property damage, even where the cause is unrelated to product defects or errata. these risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, markets, technologies, or applications through the internet of things, including wearables, drones and transportation, and industrial and consumer uses. costs from defects, errata, or other product issues could include: writing off some or all of the value of inventory; recalling products that have been shipped; providing product replacements or modifications; reimbursing customers for certain costs they incur; defending against litigation and/or paying resulting damages; and paying fines imposed by regulatory agencies. these costs could be large and may increase expenses and lower gross margin, and result in delay or loss of revenue. any product defects, errata, or other issues could also damage our reputation, negatively affect product demand, delay product releases, or result in legal liability. the announcement of product defects or errata could cause customers to purchase products from competitors as a result of possible shortages of our components or for other reasons. any of these occurrences could harm our business and financial results. in addition, although we maintain liability insurance, our coverage has certain exclusions and/or may not adequately cover liabilities incurred. our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim, and losses not covered by insurance could be large, which could harm our financial condition. we are subject to risks associated with environmental laws and regulations. the manufacturing and assembly and test of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. our failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of our manufacturing and assembly and test processes; reputational challenges; and restrictions on our operations or sales. 18 table of contents our failure to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could lead to increased costs or future liabilities. our ability to expand or modify our manufacturing capability in the future may be impeded by environmental regulations, such as air quality and wastewater requirements. environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify product designs, or incur other expenses. many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under environmental laws and regulations. these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter manufacturing and assembly and test processes. climate change may also pose regulatory and environmental risks that could harm our results of operations and affect the way we conduct business. for example, climate change regulation could result in increased manufacturing costs associated with air pollution control requirements, and increased or new monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. we also see the potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change regulations if, for example, utility companies pass on their costs to their customers. furthermore, many of our operations are located in semi-arid regions that may become increasingly vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate change. our fabrication facilities require significant water use and, while we recycle and reuse a portion of the water used, we may have difficulties obtaining sufficient water to fulfill our operational needs due the lack of available infrastructure. we are subject to ip risks and risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. we may be unable to enforce or protect our ip rights. we regard our patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and other ip rights as important to the success of our business. we rely on ip law as well as confidentiality and licensing agreements with our customers, employees, technology development partners, and others to protect our ip rights. our ability to enforce these rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our ip rights in various countries. when we seek to enforce our rights, we may be subject to claims that the ip rights are invalid, not enforceable, or licensed to the opposing party. our assertion of ip rights may result in the other party seeking to assert claims against us, which could harm our business. governments may adopt regulations and governments or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of ip rights, or governments may require products to meet standards that serve to favor local companies. our inability to enforce our ip rights under any of these circumstances may harm our competitive position and business. in addition, the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in r&amp;d, product development, and marketing could be reduced. our licenses with other companies and participation in industry initiatives may allow competitors to use our patent rights. companies in our industry often bilaterally license patents between each other to settle disputes or as part of business agreements. our competitors may have licenses to our patents, and under current case law, some of the licenses may exhaust our patent rights as to licensed product sales under some circumstances. our participation in industry standards organizations or with other industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to companies that adopt industry-standard specifications. depending on the rules of the organization, we might have to grant these licenses to our patents for little or no cost, and as a result, we may be unable to enforce certain patents against others, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our ip rights may be impaired. 19 table of contents third parties may assert claims based on ip rights against us or our products, which could harm our business. we may face claims based on ip rights from individuals and companies, including those who have acquired patent portfolios to assert claims against other companies. we are normally engaged in a number of litigation matters involving ip rights. claims that our products or processes infringe the ip rights of others, whether or not meritorious, could cause us to incur large costs to respond to, defend, and resolve, and they may divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel. in addition, we may face claims based on the theft or unauthorized use or disclosure of third-party trade secrets and other confidential business information or end-user data that we obtain in conducting our business. any such incidents and claims could severely disrupt our business, and we could suffer losses, including the cost of product recalls and returns, and reputational harm. furthermore, we have agreed to indemnify customers for certain ip rights claims against them. as a result of ip rights claims, we could: pay monetary damages, including payments to satisfy indemnification obligations; stop manufacturing, using, selling, offering to sell, or importing products or technology subject to claims; develop other products or technology not subject to claims, which could be time-consuming or costly; and/or enter into settlement and license agreements, which agreements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. these ip rights claims could harm our competitive position, result in expenses, or require us to impair our assets. if we alter or stop production of affected items, our revenue could be harmed. we rely on access to third-party ip, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. many of our products include third-party ip and/or implement industry standards, which may require licenses from third parties. based on past experience and industry practice, we believe such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. however, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or at all. failure to obtain the right to use third-party ip, or to use such ip on commercially reasonable terms, could preclude us from selling certain products or otherwise have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. we are subject to the risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. we may face legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. as described in " note 20: commitments and contingencies " in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k, we are engaged in a number of litigation and regulatory matters. litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. an unfavorable outcome may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. in addition, regardless of the outcome, litigation can be costly, time-consuming, disruptive to our operations, and distracting to management. we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees. to be competitive, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees. hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees can be intense. to help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based and other performance-based incentive awards such as restricted stock units (rsus) and cash bonuses. also key to our employee hiring and retention is our ability to build and maintain an inclusive business culture and be viewed as an employer of choice. if our share-based or other compensation programs and workplace culture cease to be viewed as competitive, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. 20 table of contents we are subject to cybersecurity and privacy risks. third parties attempt to gain unauthorized access to our network, products, services, and infrastructure. we regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the internet or to introduce malicious software to our information technology (it) systems. additionally, malicious hackers may attempt to gain unauthorized access and corrupt the processes of hardware and software products that we manufacture and services we provide. due to the widespread use of our products and the high profile of our commercial security products, we or our products and services are a frequent target of computer hackers and organizations that intend to sabotage, take control of, or otherwise corrupt our manufacturing or other processes, products, and services. we are also a target of malicious attackers who attempt to gain access to our network or data centers or those of our customers or end users; steal proprietary information related to our business, products, employees, and customers; or interrupt our systems and services or those of our customers or others. we believe such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication. from time to time, we encounter intrusions or unauthorized access to our network, products, services, or infrastructure. to date, none have resulted in any material adverse impact to our business or operations. in some instances, we, our customers, and the users of our products and services might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. while we seek to detect and investigate all unauthorized attempts and attacks against our network, products, and services, and to prevent their recurrence where practicable through changes to our internal processes and tools and/or changes or patches to our products and services, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats. such incidents, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in our incurring significant costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, reduced inventory value, providing modifications to our products and services, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. in addition, these threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of successfully defending against them or implementing adequate preventative measures. publicity about vulnerabilities and attempted or successful incursions could damage our reputation with customers or users, and reduce demand for our products and services. we may be subject to theft, loss, or misuse of personal data about our employees, customers, or other third parties, which could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business could result in significantly increased security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. costs to comply with and implement these privacy-related and data protection measures could be significant. in addition, even our inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. we are subject to risks associated with transactions. we invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. we make investments in public and private companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support key business initiatives. many of the instruments in which we invest are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. companies in which we invest range from early-stage companies still defining their strategic direction to mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. the success of our investment in any company is typically dependent on the availability to the company of additional funding on favorable terms, or a liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition. if any of the companies in which we invest fail, we could lose all or part of our investment. 21 table of contents our acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could fail to achieve strategic objectives, disrupt our ongoing business, and harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements for possible acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as joint ventures. given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives. in addition to opportunity costs, these transactions involve large challenges and risks, including risks that: the transaction may not advance our business strategy; we may be unable to identify opportunities on terms acceptable to us; we may not realize a satisfactory return; we may experience disruption of our ongoing operations; we may be unable to retain key personnel; we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; acquired businesses may not have adequate controls, processes, and procedures to ensure compliance with laws and regulations, and our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities; we may have difficulty entering new market segments; we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses; and/or there may be unknown, underestimated, and/or undisclosed commitments or liabilities. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty selling on acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed-upon terms and financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions. these circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expense, or we may sell a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. if we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to factors such as: failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals; ip disputes or other litigation; or difficulties obtaining financing for the transaction. we are subject to sales-related risks. we face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties. we sell a significant portion of our products through third parties such as distributors, value-added resellers, and channel partners (collectively referred to as distributors) as well as oems, odms and internet service providers. we depend on many distributors to help us create end customer demand, provide technical support and other value-added services to customers, fill customer orders, and stock our products. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and a material change in our relationship with one or more of these distributors or their failure to perform as expected could reduce our revenue. our ability to add or replace distributors for some of our products may be limited. in addition, our distributors' expertise in the determination and stocking of acceptable inventory levels for some of our products may not be easily transferable to a new distributor; as a result, end customers may be hesitant to accept the addition or replacement of a distributor. using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. distributors and other third parties may sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to focus them on the sale of our products. they may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. violations of the foreign corrupt practices act or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. failure to manage risks related to our use of distributors and other third parties may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. 22 table of contents we face risks related to business transactions with u.s. government entities. we receive proceeds from services and products we provide to the u.s. government. u.s. government demand and payment may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations. u.s. government contracts are subject to oversight, including special rules on accounting, ip rights, expenses, reviews, information handling, and security. failure to comply with these rules could result in civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, fines, and suspensions, or debarment from future u.s. government business. our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying accounting policies. the methods, estimates, and judgments used in applying accounting policies are subject to significant risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and changes that could affect our financial position and results of operations. for more information, see "critical accounting estimates" in part ii, item 7 and "note 2: accounting policies" in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. changes in our effective tax rate may reduce our net income. a number of factors may increase our effective tax rates, which could reduce our net income, including: changes in jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and in deferred tax valuation allowances; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including changes in the u.s. to the taxation of manufacturing enterprises and of non-u.s. income and expenses; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; and our decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we may have fluctuations in the amount and frequency of our stock repurchases. the amount, timing, and execution of our stock repurchase program may fluctuate based on our priorities for the use of cash for other purposes such as investing in our business, including operational spending, capital spending, and acquisitions, and returning cash to our stockholders as dividend payments and because of changes in cash flows and changes in tax laws. workforce restructuring actions may be disruptive to our operations and adversely affect our financial results. in response to the business environment and to accomplish our strategic objectives, we have announced restructurings of our operations and have made other adjustments to our workforce. we may pursue similar actions in the future, and such workforce changes can result in restructuring charges in addition to those described in " note 7: restructuring and other charges " in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. any such workforce changes can also temporarily reduce workforce productivity, which could be disruptive to our business and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if our restructurings are perceived negatively, our corporate reputation and ability to attract employees could suffer. moreover, we may not achieve or sustain the expected cost savings or other benefits of our restructuring plans, or do so within the expected time frame. additional factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations with regard to our restructuring activity include: timing and execution of plans and programs that may be subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate works councils; assumptions related to severance, post-retirement, and relocation costs; future acquisitions, dispositions, or investments; new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap, development, and manufacturing; and/or assumptions related to cost savings, product demand, and operating efficiencies. 23 table of contents there are inherent limitations on the effectiveness of our controls. we do not expect that our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. a control system, no matter how well-designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system's objectives will be met. the design of a control system must reflect the fact that resource constraints exist, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. further, because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. the design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of controls to future periods are subject to risks. over time, controls may become inadequate due to changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. if our controls become inadequate, we could fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, our reputation may be adversely affected, our business and operating results could be harmed, and the market price of our stock could decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are affected by changes in currency exchange and interest rates, as well as equity and commodity prices. our risk management programs reduce, but may not entirely eliminate, the impact of these risks. all of the following potential changes are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions as of december 31, 2016 and december 26, 2015 . actual results may differ materially. currency exchange rates we are exposed to currency exchange risks of non-u.s.-dollar-denominated investments in debt instruments and loans receivable, and may economically hedge this risk with foreign currency contracts, such as currency forward contracts or currency interest rate swaps. gains or losses on these non-u.s.-currency investments are generally offset by corresponding losses or gains on the related hedging instruments. we are exposed to currency exchange risks from our non-u.s.-dollar-denominated debt indebtedness and may use foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges to manage this risk. substantially all of our revenue is transacted in u.s. dollars. however, a significant portion of our operating expenditures and capital purchases are incurred in other currencies, primarily the euro, the japanese yen, the israeli shekel, and the chinese yuan . we have established currency risk management programs to protect against currency exchange rate risks associated with non-u.s. dollar forecasted future cash flows and existing non-u.s. dollar monetary assets and liabilities. we may also hedge currency risk arising from funding of foreign currency-denominated future investments. we may utilize foreign currency contracts, such as currency forward or option contracts in these hedging programs. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that a weighted average adverse change of 20% in currency exchange rates could be experienced in the near term. such an adverse change, after taking into account balance sheet hedges only and offsetting recorded monetary asset and liability positions, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less than $80 million as of december 31, 2016 (less than $75 million as of december 26, 2015 ). interest rates we are exposed to interest rate risk related to our fixed-rate investment portfolio and outstanding debt. the primary objective of our investment policy is to preserve principal and the financial flexibility to fund our business while maximizing yields, which generally track the u.s. dollar three-month libor. we generally enter into interest rate contracts to convert the returns on our fixed-rate debt investment with remaining maturities longer than six months into u.s. dollar three-month libor-based returns. we may enter into swaps to convert fixed-rate coupon payments into floating-rate coupon payments for our existing indebtedness. gains or losses on these instruments are generally offset by corresponding losses or gains on the related hedging instruments. a hypothetical decrease in benchmark interest rates of up to 1.0% , after taking into account investment hedges, would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our investment portfolio of approximately $100 million as of december 31, 2016 (an increase of approximately $15 million as of december 26, 2015 ). after taking into account interest rate and currency swaps, a hypothetical decrease in interest rates of up to 1.0% would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our indebtedness of approximately $1.3 billion as of december 31, 2016 (an increase of approximately $1.6 billion as of december 26, 2015 ). the fluctuations in fair value of our investment portfolio and indebtedness reflect only the direct impact of the change in interest rates. other economic variables, such as equity market fluctuations and changes in relative credit risk, could result in a significantly higher fluctuation in the fair value of our net investment position. equity prices our investments include marketable equity securities and equity derivative instruments. we typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our equity market exposure through hedging activities at the inception of our investments. before we enter into hedge arrangements, we evaluate legal, market, and economic factors, as well as the expected timing of disposal, to determine whether hedging is appropriate. our equity market risk management program may include equity derivatives with or without hedge accounting designation that utilize warrants, equity options, or other equity derivatives. we also utilize total return swaps to offset changes in liabilities related to the equity market risks of certain deferred compensation arrangements. gains or losses from changes in fair value of these total return swaps are generally offset by the losses or gains on the related liabilities. 47 table of contents as of december 31, 2016 , the fair value of our marketable equity investments and our equity derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $6.2 billion ( $6.0 billion as of december 26, 2015 ). substantially all of our marketable equity investments portfolio as of december 31, 2016 was concentrated in our investment in asml of $6.1 billion ( $5.7 billion as of december 26, 2015 ). our marketable equity method investments are excluded from our analysis, as the carrying value does not fluctuate based on market price changes unless an other-than-temporary impairment is deemed necessary. to determine reasonably possible decreases in the market value of our marketable equity investments, we have analyzed the historical market price sensitivity of our marketable equity investment portfolio. assuming a decline of 30% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, the aggregate value of our marketable equity investments could decrease by approximately $1.9 billion , based on the value as of december 31, 2016 (a decrease in value of approximately $1.8 billion , based on the value as of december 26, 2015 using an assumed decline of 30% ). many of the same factors that could result in an adverse movement of equity market prices affect our non-marketable equity investments, although we cannot always quantify the impact directly. financial markets are volatile, which could negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of our ability to realize value in our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. these types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can be no assurance that any specific company will grow or become successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our investment. our non-marketable cost method equity investments had a carrying amount of $3.1 billion as of december 31, 2016 ( $2.9 billion as of december 26, 2015 ) and included our investment in unispreadtrum and cloudera, inc. (cloudera) of $966 million and $454 million , respectively ( $966 million and $454 million for unispreadtrum and cloudera, respectively, as of december 26, 2015 ). the carrying amount of our non-marketable equity method investments was $1.3 billion as of december 31, 2016 ( $1.6 billion as of december 26, 2015 ). a substantial majority of our non-marketable equity method investments balance as of december 31, 2016 was concentrated in our imft and cloudera investments of $849 million and $225 million , respectively ( $872 million and $256 million for imft and cloudera, respectively, as of december 26, 2015 ). commodity price risk although we operate facilities that consume commodities, we are not directly affected by commodity price risk to a material degree. we have established forecasted transaction risk management programs to protect against fluctuations in commodity prices. we may use commodity derivatives contracts, such as commodity swaps, in these hedging programs. in addition, we have sourcing plans in place for our key commodities that mitigate the risk of a potential supplier concentration. 48risk factors pages 46-53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pages 39-40risk factors pages 49 - 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pages 43 - 44risk factors pages 50 - 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk pages 43 - 45risk factors 18 risk factors fluctuations in demand for our products may adversely affect our financial results. if demand for our products fluctuates, our revenue and gross margin could be adversely affected. important factors that could cause demand for our products to fluctuate include: changes in customer product needs; changes in the level of customers inventory; changes in business and economic conditions, including a downturn in the semiconductor industry; competitive pressures from companies that have competing products, chip architectures and manufacturing technologies; strategic actions taken by our competitors; and market acceptance of our products. if demand for our products is reduced, our manufacturing and/or assembly and test capacity could be under-utilized, and we may be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets including facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. in addition, factory planning decisions may cause us to record accelerated depreciation. in the long term, if demand for our products increases, we may not be able to add manufacturing and/or assembly and test capacity fast enough to meet market demand. these changes in demand for our products, and changes in our customers product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize and record impairments of our assets. the semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or otherwise difficult to reduce in the short term, and by product demand that is highly variable and is subject to significant downturns that may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by high costs, such as those related to facility construction and equipment, research and development, and employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. at the same time, demand for our products is highly variable and has experienced downturns, often in connection with maturing product cycles and downturns in general economic market conditions. these downturns have been characterized by reduced product demand, manufacturing overcapacity, high inventory levels and decreased average selling prices. the combination of these factors may cause our revenue, gross margin, cash flow and profitability to vary significantly both in the short term and over the long term. we operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete. we operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. to compete successfully, we must maintain a successful r d effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. we may not be able to successfully develop and market these new products; the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers; and products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect the demand for our products. these types of events could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize and record impairments of our assets. 18 table of contents fluctuations in the mix of products sold may adversely affect our financial results. because of the wide price differences among mobile, desktop and server microprocessors, the mix and types of performance capabilities of microprocessors sold affect the average selling price of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue. our financial results also depend in part on the mix of other products we sell, such as chipsets, flash memory and other semiconductor products. in addition, more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development costs and higher start-up costs. fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover our fixed costs and investments that are associated with a particular product, and as a result can negatively impact our financial results. our global operations subject us to risks that may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. we have sales offices and research and development, manufacturing, and assembly and test facilities in many countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. our global operations may be subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop or sell products in particular countries, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, including: health concerns; natural disasters; inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers and supply chain interruptions; differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices; regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; security concerns, including crime, political instability, terrorist activity, armed conflict and civil or military unrest; and restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings. in addition, although most of our products are priced and paid for in u.s. dollars, a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies. fluctuations in the rate of exchange between the u.s. dollar and the currencies of other countries in which we conduct business, and changes in currency controls with respect to such countries, could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses in such countries. in addition, changes in tariff and import regulations and to u.s. and non-u.s. monetary policies may also negatively impact our revenue in those affected countries. varying tax rates in different jurisdictions could negatively impact our overall tax rate. failure to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or oversupply of products, may adversely impact our business and results of operations. manufacturing and assembly and test of integrated circuits is a complex process. disruptions in this process can result from difficulties in our development and implementation of new processes, errors and interruptions in the processes, defects in materials and disruptions in our supply of materials or resources, all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. furthermore, we may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in our failure to increase production as desired, resulting in higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could impact our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific product demand. furthermore, the unavailability or reduced availability of certain products could make it more difficult to implement our platform strategy. we may also experience increases in yields. a substantial increase in yields could result in higher inventory levels and the possibility of resulting excess capacity charges as we slow production to reduce inventory levels. in addition, higher yields, as well as other factors, can decrease overall unit costs and may cause us to revalue our existing inventory on certain products to their lower replacement cost, which would impact our gross margin in the quarters in which this revaluation occurs. the occurrence of any of these events could adversely impact our business and results of operations. we may have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need for manufacturing or assembling our products or operating other aspects of our business, which could adversely affect our ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our costs. we have thousands of suppliers providing various materials that we use in production of our products and other aspects of our business, and we seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of these materials. however, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these materials. the inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production process or could make it more difficult for us to implement our platform strategy. in addition, production could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in production such as water, silicon, electricity and gases. the unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or resources we use in our business may require us to reduce production of products or may require us to incur additional costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of these materials or resources. the occurrence of any of these events could adversely impact our business and results of operations. 19 table of contents costs related to product defects and errata may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and business. costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) include, for example, the costs of: writing down the value of inventory of defective products; disposing of defective products that cannot be fixed; recalling defective products that have been shipped to customers; providing product replacements for or modifications to defective products; and defending against litigation related to defective products. these costs could be substantial and may therefore increase our expenses and adversely affect our gross margin. in addition, our reputation with our customers or end users of our products could be damaged as a result of such product defects and errata, and the demand for our products could be reduced. these factors could negatively impact our financial results and the prospects for our business. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business. from time to time, third parties may assert against us or our customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from certain individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending and resolving such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel away from our business. as a result of such intellectual property infringement claims, we could be required to: pay third-party infringement claims; discontinue manufacturing, using or selling the infringing products; discontinue using the infringing technology or processes; develop non-infringing technology, which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible; or license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in unexpected expenses or require us to recognize an impairment of our assets, which would reduce the value of our assets and increase expenses. in addition, if we alter or discontinue our production of affected items, our revenue could be negatively impacted. we may be subject to litigation proceedings that could adversely affect our business. in addition to the litigation risks mentioned above, we may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, antitrust and other issues. as described in legal proceedings in part i, item 3 of this form 10-k, we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters. litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. an unfavorable ruling could include money damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting intel from manufacturing or selling one or more products. were an unfavorable ruling to occur, there exists the possibility of a material adverse impact on business and results of operations for the period in which the ruling occurred or future periods. we may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and adversely affect our business. our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses and other intellectual property is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. when we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. in addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us, which may adversely impact our business in the manner discussed above. if we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular product or family of products, due to an injunction, or we may have to pay material amounts of damages, which could in turn negatively affect our results of operations. in addition, governments may adopt regulations or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property to others, or governments may require that products meet specified standards that serve to favor local companies. our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may negatively impact our competitive position and our business. 20 table of contents our licenses with other companies and our participation in industry initiatives may allow other companies, including competitors, to use our patent rights. companies in the semiconductor industry often rely on the ability to license patents from each other in order to compete. many of our competitors have broad licenses or cross-licenses with us, and under current case law, some of these licenses may permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others. if one of these licensees becomes a foundry, our competitors might be able to avoid our patent rights in manufacturing competing products. in addition, our participation in industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to other companies that adopt certain industry standards or specifications, even when such organizations do not adopt standards or specifications proposed by us. as a result, our patents implicated by our participation in industry initiatives might not be available for us to enforce against others who might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those patents, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our intellectual property may be impaired. in order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. in order to compete, we must attract, retain and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and support positions. hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, we rely heavily on stock-based incentive awards such as employee stock options and restricted stock. if the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock and/or if our other stock-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate our employees could be adversely impacted, which could negatively affect our results of operations and/or require us to increase the amount we expend on cash and other forms of compensation. in addition, our adoption of statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 123 (revised 2004), share-based payment, during our first quarter of 2006 will result in significant additional compensation expense compared to prior periods. our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies. the methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see critical accounting estimates in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k). such methods, estimates and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates and judgments. changes in those methods, estimates and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. in particular, beginning in our first quarter of 2006, the calculation of share-based compensation expense under sfas no. 123(r) will require us to use valuation methodologies (which were not developed for use in valuing employee stock options) and a number of assumptions, estimates and conclusions regarding matters such as expected forfeitures, expected volatility of our share price, the expected dividend rate with respect to our common stock and the exercise behavior of our employees. furthermore, there are no means, under applicable accounting principles, to compare and adjust our expense if and when we learn of additional information that may affect the estimates that we previously made, with the exception of changes in expected forfeitures of share-based awards. factors may arise over time that lead us to change our estimates and assumptions with respect to future share-based compensation arrangements, resulting in variability in our share-based compensation expense over time. changes in forecasted share-based compensation expense could impact our gross margin percentage; research and development expenses; marketing, general and administrative expenses; and our tax rate. our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations worldwide could adversely impact our business and results of operations. the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. our failure to comply with any of these applicable laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes; or curtailment of our operations or sales. in addition, our failure to properly manage the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or future liabilities. existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our product designs or incur other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of certain materials in our manufacturing, assembly and test processes or products. any of these consequences could adversely impact our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses and/or requiring us to alter our manufacturing processes. 21 table of contents changes in our effective tax rate may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected by a number of factors including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could adversely impact net income for future periods. in addition, the u.s. internal revenue service (irs) and other tax authorities regularly examine our income tax returns. the irs has issued formal assessments related to amounts reflected on certain of our tax returns as a tax benefit for our export sales (see note 18: contingencies in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k). our results of operations could be adversely impacted if these assessments or any other assessments resulting from the examination of our income tax returns by the irs or other taxing authorities are not resolved in our favor. we invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. we make investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. such investments include investments in equity securities of public companies and investments in non-marketable equity securities of private companies, which range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies whose products or technologies may directly support an intel product or initiative. the success of these companies (or lack thereof) is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency and other key business success factors. the private companies in which we invest may fail because they may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings or take advantage of liquidity events, such as initial public offerings, mergers and private sales. if any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. in addition, if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for the equity securities of the public and private companies in which we invest, we write down the investment to its fair value and record the related write-down as an investment loss. furthermore, when the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment. our investments in non-marketable equity securities of private companies are not liquid, and we may not be able to dispose of these investments on favorable terms or at all. the occurrence of any of these events could negatively affect our net income and results of operations. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and marketable equity security prices. to mitigate these risks, we may utilize derivative financial instruments, among other strategies. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions at december 31, 2005 and december 25, 2004. actual results may differ materially. currency exchange rates we generally hedge currency risks of non-u.s. -dollar-denominated investments in debt securities with offsetting currency borrowings, currency forward contracts or currency interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these non-u.s. -currency investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in negligible net exposure. a substantial majority of our revenue, expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we do incur certain operating costs in other currencies, primarily the euro and certain other european and asian currencies. to protect against reductions in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we have established balance sheet and forecasted transaction risk management programs. currency forward contracts and currency options are generally utilized in these hedging programs. our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. such adverse changes, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less than $30 million at the end of 2005 and 2004. interest rates the primary objective of our investments in debt securities is to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, the returns on our investments in fixed-rate debt securities are generally based on three-month libor, or, if longer term, are generally swapped to u.s. dollar libor-based returns. in addition to investments, in 2005 we issued additional debt. we considered the historical volatility of the interest rates experienced in prior years and the duration of our investment portfolio and debt issuances, and determined that it was reasonably possible that an adverse change of 80 basis points (0.80%), approximately 18% of the rate at the end of 2005, could be experienced in the near term. a hypothetical 0.80% increase in interest rates, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $10 million and $20 million as of the end of 2005 and 2004, respectively. marketable equity security prices we have a portfolio of strategic equity investments that includes marketable strategic equity securities and derivative equity instruments such as warrants and options, as well as non-marketable equity investments, which are discussed further below. we invest in companies that develop software, hardware or services supporting our technologies. these investments help advance our overall goal to be the preeminent provider of silicon chips and platform solutions to the worldwide digital economy. our current investment focus areas include helping to enable mobile wireless devices, advance the digital home, enhance the digital enterprise, advance high-performance communications infrastructures and develop the next generation of silicon production technologies. our focus areas tend to develop and change over time due to rapid advancements in the technology field. our total marketable portfolio includes marketable strategic equity securities as well as marketable equity securities classified as trading assets. to the extent that our marketable portfolio of investments continues to have strategic value, we typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure. for securities that we no longer consider strategic, we evaluate legal, market and economic factors in our decision on the timing of disposal and whether it is possible and appropriate to hedge the equity market risk. we may or may not enter into transactions to reduce or eliminate the market risks of our investments in strategic equity derivatives, including warrants. the marketable equity securities included in trading assets, as well as certain equity derivatives, are held to generate returns that generally offset changes in liabilities related to the equity market risk of certain deferred compensation arrangements. the gains and losses from changes in fair value of these equity securities are generally offset by the gains and losses on the related liabilities, resulting in a net exposure of less than $10 million as of both december 31, 2005 and december 25, 2004, assuming a reasonably possible decline in market prices of approximately 11% in the near term. 46 table of contents as of december 31, 2005, the fair value of our portfolio of marketable strategic equity investments and equity derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $574 million ($662 million as of december 25, 2004). to assess the market price sensitivity of these equity securities, we analyzed the historical movements over the past several years of high-technology stock indices that we considered appropriate. however, our marketable strategic equity portfolio is substantially concentrated in one company as of december 31, 2005, which will affect the portfolio price volatility. we currently have an investment in micron with a fair value of $451 million, or 79% of the total marketable strategic equity portfolio value including equity derivative instruments at december 31, 2005. during 2005, we recognized an impairment charge of $105 million related to our investment in micron reflecting the difference between the cost basis of the investment and the price of micron stock at the end of the second quarter. the impairment was principally based on our assessment during the second quarter of 2005 of micron financial results and the fact that the market price of micron stock had been below our cost basis for an extended period of time, as well as the competitive pricing environment for dram products. the investment in micron is part of our strategy to support the development and supply of dram products. based on the analysis of the high-technology stock indices and the historical volatility of micron stock, we estimated that it was reasonably possible that the prices of the stocks in our marketable strategic equity portfolio could experience a loss of 40% in the near term (45% as of the end of 2004). the assumed loss percentage used in 2005 was lower than the assumed loss percentage in 2004 due to the differences in the concentrations of investments at the end of each year. this estimate is not necessarily indicative of future performance, and actual results may differ materially. assuming a loss of 40% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, our marketable strategic equity portfolio could decrease in value by approximately $245 million, based on the value of the portfolio as of december 31, 2005 (a decrease in value of approximately $300 million, based on the value of the portfolio as of december 25, 2004 using an assumed loss of 45%). at december 25, 2004, our marketable strategic equity portfolio was substantially concentrated in two companies. the fair value of our investment in micron was approximately $400 million, or 60% of the total marketable portfolio value including equity derivative instruments at december 25, 2004. in addition, the fair value of our investment in elpida memory, inc. was approximately $212 million, or 32% of the portfolio at december 25, 2004. we sold our investment in elpida during 2005. non-marketable equity securities our strategic investments in non-marketable equity securities are affected by many of the same factors that could result in an adverse movement of equity market prices, although the impact cannot be directly quantified. such a movement and the underlying economic conditions would negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital and the likelihood of our being able to realize our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers or private sales. these types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can be no assurance that any specific company will grow or become successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our investment. at december 31, 2005, our strategic investments in non-marketable equity securities had a carrying amount of $561 million ($507 million as of december 25, 2004). the carrying amount of these investments approximated fair value as of december 31, 2005 and december 24, 2004. no investment in our non-marketable equity securities portfolio was individually significant as of december 31, 2005 or december 25, 2004. 47risk factors 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46risk factors 15 risk factors fluctuations in demand for our products may harm our financial results and are difficult to forecast. if demand for our products fluctuates, our revenue and gross margin could be harmed. important factors that could cause demand for our products to fluctuate include: changes in business and economic conditions, including a downturn in the semiconductor industry and/or the overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market; competitive pressures, including pricing pressures, from companies that have competing products, chip architectures, manufacturing technologies, and marketing programs; changes in customer product needs; changes in the level of customers components inventory; strategic actions taken by our competitors; and market acceptance of our products. if product demand decreases, our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets including facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. in addition, factory-planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, and cause us to accelerate depreciation. in the long term, if product demand increases, we may not be able to add manufacturing or assembly and test capacity fast enough to meet market demand. these changes in demand for our products, and changes in our customers product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments of our assets. in addition, if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record underutilization charges, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. the semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, and by product demand that is highly variable and subject to significant downturns that may harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by high costs, such as those related to facility construction and equipment, r d, and employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. at the same time, demand for our products is highly variable and there have been downturns, often in connection with maturing product cycles as well as downturns in general economic market conditions. these downturns have been characterized by reduced product demand, manufacturing overcapacity, high inventory levels, and lower average selling prices. the combination of these factors may cause our revenue, gross margin, cash flow, and profitability to vary significantly in both the short and long term. we operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products could harm our ability to compete. we operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. to compete successfully, we must maintain a successful r d effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. we may not be able to develop and market these new products successfully, the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers, and products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect demand for our products. these types of events could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize impairments of our assets. fluctuations in the mix of products sold may harm our financial results. because of the wide price differences among mobile, desktop, and server microprocessors, the mix and types of performance capabilities of microprocessors sold affect the average selling price of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. our financial results also depend in part on the mix of other products that we sell, such as chipsets, flash memory, and other semiconductor products. in addition, more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production ramp. fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product, and as a result can harm our financial results. 15 table of contents our global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results of operations and financial condition. we have sales offices, r d, manufacturing, and assembly and test facilities in many countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. our global operations may be subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products in particular countries, which could, in turn, harm our results of operations and financial condition, including: security concerns, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity; health concerns; natural disasters; inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers and supply chain interruptions; differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices; regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings. in addition, although most of our products are priced and paid for in u.s. dollars, a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies. our hedging programs reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange rates could harm our business operating results and financial condition. in addition, changes in tariff and import regulations and to u.s. and non-u.s. monetary policies may harm our operating results and financial condition by increasing our expenses and reducing our revenue. varying tax rates in different jurisdictions could harm our operating results and financial condition by increasing our overall tax rate. we also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. losses not covered by insurance may be substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our results of operations. failure to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of operations. production of integrated circuits is a complex process. disruptions in this process can result from interruptions in our processes, errors, and difficulties in our development and implementation of new processes; defects in materials; disruptions in our supply of materials or resources; and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to, for example, accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. we may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting in higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific product demand. the unavailability or reduced availability of certain products could make it more difficult to implement our platform strategy. we may also experience increases in yields. a substantial increase in yields could result in higher inventory levels and the possibility of resulting excess capacity charges as we slow production to reduce inventory levels. the occurrence of any of these events could harm our business and results of operations. we may have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our costs. we have thousands of suppliers providing various materials that we use in the production of our products and other aspects of our business, and we seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of those materials. however, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these materials. the inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production processes or could make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. in addition, production could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, and gases. the unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or resources that we use in our business may require us to reduce production of products or may require us to incur additional costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of those materials or resources. the occurrence of any of these events could harm our business and results of operations. 16 table of contents costs related to product defects and errata may harm our results of operations and business. costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) due to, for example, unanticipated problems in our manufacturing processes include, the costs of: writing off the value of inventory of defective products; disposing of defective products that cannot be fixed; recalling defective products that have been shipped to customers; providing product replacements for, or modifications to, defective products; and/or defending against litigation related to defective products. these costs could be substantial and may therefore increase our expenses and lower our gross margin. in addition, our reputation with our customers or users of our products could be damaged as a result of such product defects and errata, and the demand for our products could be reduced. these factors could harm our financial results and the prospects for our business. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business. from time to time, third parties may assert against us or our customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from certain individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending, and resolving such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel away from our business. as a result of such intellectual property infringement claims, we could be required or otherwise decide it is appropriate to: pay third-party infringement claims; discontinue manufacturing, using, or selling particular products subject to infringement claims; discontinue using the technology or processes subject to infringement claims; develop other technology not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible; and/or license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. the occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in unexpected expenses or require us to recognize an impairment of our assets, which would reduce the value of our assets and increase expenses. in addition, if we alter or discontinue our production of affected items, our revenue could be negatively impacted. we may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. in addition to the litigation risks mentioned above, we may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, antitrust, and other issues. as described in note 21: contingencies in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k, we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters. litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. an unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products. were an unfavorable ruling to occur, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. we may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our business. our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. when we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. in addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us, which may harm our business. if we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of operations. in addition, governments may adopt regulations or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property to others, or governments may require that products meet specified standards that serve to favor local companies. our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may harm our competitive position and our business. 17 table of contents our licenses with other companies and our participation in industry initiatives may allow other companies, including our competitors, to use our patent rights. companies in the semiconductor industry often rely on the ability to license patents from each other in order to compete. many of our competitors have broad licenses or cross-licenses with us, and under current case law, some of these licenses may permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others. if one of these licensees becomes a foundry, our competitors might be able to avoid our patent rights in manufacturing competing products. in addition, our participation in industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to other companies that adopt certain industry standards or specifications, even when such organizations do not adopt standards or specifications proposed by us. as a result, our patents implicated by our participation in industry initiatives might not be available for us to enforce against others who might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those patents, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our intellectual property may be impaired. changes in our decisions with regard to our announced restructuring and efficiency efforts, and other factors, could affect our results of operations and financial condition. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations with regard to our announced restructuring include: timing and execution of plans and programs that may be subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate works councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and postretirement costs; future dispositions; new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap, development, and manufacturing; changes in employment levels and turnover rates; changes in product demand and the business environment; and changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets. in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations. in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing, and support positions. hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. to help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as employee stock options and non-vested share units (restricted stock units). if the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see critical accounting estimates in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k). such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of operations. the manufacturing and assembling and testing of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. our failure to comply with any of these applicable laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes; and curtailment of our operations or sales. in addition, our failure to manage the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or future liabilities. existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our product designs, or incur other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of one or more of such materials in our manufacturing, assembly and test processes, or products. any of these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. 18 table of contents changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process r d and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. we invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. we make investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. such investments include investments in equity securities of public companies and non-marketable equity investments in private companies, which range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. the success of these companies is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors. the private companies in which we invest may fail because they may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or take advantage of liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. if any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an equity investment in a public or private company in which we have invested, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. furthermore, when the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment. our non-marketable equity investments in private companies are not liquid, and we may not be able to dispose of these investments on favorable terms or at all. the occurrence of any of these events could harm our results of operations. additionally, for cases in which we are required under equity method accounting to recognize a proportionate share of another company income or loss, such income and loss may impact our earnings. interest and other, net could vary from expectations, which could harm our results of operations. factors that could cause interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of income to fluctuate include: fixed-income and credit market volatility; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in our cash and investment balances; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; other-than-temporary impairments in the fair value of fixed-income instruments; changes in our hedge accounting treatment; and gains or losses from divestitures. our acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as joint ventures. acquisitions and other transactions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: we may not be able to identify suitable opportunities at terms acceptable to us; the transaction may not advance our business strategy; we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; or we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed terms and financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions. these circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to businesses that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. 19 table of contents if we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to: failure to obtain required regulatory or other approvals; intellectual property or other litigation; difficulties that we or other parties may encounter in obtaining financing for the transaction; or other factors. further, acquisition, divestiture, and other transactions require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. these factors could harm our business and results of operations. the proposed numonyx transaction may be delayed or not consummated. in may 2007, we announced that we entered into an agreement to form a private, independent semiconductor company with stmicroelectronics n.v. and francisco partners l.p., later named numonyx (see note 13: divestitures in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k). if the transaction is delayed or not consummated, we may record additional charges. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. we use derivative financial instruments primarily to mitigate these risks. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions at december 29, 2007 and december 30, 2006. actual results may differ materially. currency exchange rates we generally hedge currency risks of non-u.s.-dollar-denominated investments in debt instruments with offsetting currency borrowings, currency forward contracts, or currency interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these non-u.s.-currency investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in negligible net exposure. a majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, certain operating expenditures and capital purchases are incurred in or exposed to other currencies, primarily the euro, the israeli shekel, and the chinese yuan. to protect against reductions in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we have established balance sheet and anticipated transaction risk management programs. currency forward contracts and currency options are generally utilized in these hedging programs. our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements (see risk factors in part ii, item 1a of this form 10-k). we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that a weighted average adverse change of 15% in currency exchange rates could be experienced in the near term. such an adverse change, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less than $35 million at the end of 2007 and 2006. interest rates we are exposed to interest rate risk related to our investment portfolio and debt issuances. the primary objective of our investments in debt instruments is to preserve principal while maximizing yields. to achieve this objective, the returns on all of our investments in debt instruments are generally based on three-month libor, or, if the maturities are longer than three months, the returns are generally swapped into u.s. dollar three-month libor-based returns. we considered the historical volatility of the interest rates experienced in prior years and the duration of our investment portfolio and debt issuances, and determined that it was reasonably possible that an adverse change of 80 basis points (0.80%), approximately 17% of the rate at december 29, 2007 (15% of the rate at december 30, 2006), could be experienced in the near term. a hypothetical 0.80% decrease in interest rates, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $65 million as of december 29, 2007 and $50 million as of december 30, 2006. the decline reflects only the direct impact of the change in interest rates. other economic variables, such as equity market fluctuations and changes in relative credit risk, could result in a significantly higher decline in our net investment portfolio. equity prices our marketable investments include marketable equity securities, equity derivative instruments such as warrants and options, and marketable equity method investments. to the extent that our marketable equity securities have strategic value, we typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure; however, for our investments in strategic equity derivative instruments, including warrants, we may enter into transactions to reduce or eliminate the market risks. for securities that we no longer consider strategic, we evaluate legal, market, and economic factors in our decision on the timing of disposal and whether it is possible and appropriate to hedge the equity market risk. the marketable equity securities included in trading assets are held to generate returns that offset changes in liabilities related to the equity market risk of certain deferred compensation arrangements. the gains and losses from changes in fair value of these equity securities are generally offset by the gains and losses on the related liabilities, resulting in a net exposure of less than $10 million as of december 29, 2007 and december 30, 2006, assuming a reasonably possible decline in market prices of approximately 10% in the near term. as of december 29, 2007, the fair value of our marketable equity securities and equity derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $1.0 billion ($427 million as of december 30, 2006). our investments in vmware and micron constituted 92% of our marketable equity securities as of december 29, 2007, and were carried at a fair market value of $794 million and $123 million, respectively. our marketable equity method investment had a carrying value of $508 million and a fair value of $522 million as of december 29, 2007. 44 table of contents to assess the market price sensitivity of our marketable equity investments, we analyzed the historical movements over the past several years of high-technology stock indices that we considered appropriate. for our investments in companies that have been publicly traded for only a limited time, we analyzed the implied volatility of the related company based on freely traded options. our marketable equity method investment is excluded from our analysis, as the carrying value does not fluctuate based on market price changes. therefore, the potential fair value decline would not be indicative of the impact on our financial statements, unless an other-than-temporary impairment was deemed necessary. based on our sensitivity analysis, we estimated that it was reasonably possible that the prices of the stocks of our marketable equity securities could experience a loss of 55% in the near term (30% as of december 30, 2006). assuming a loss of 55% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, the aggregate value of our marketable equity investments could decrease by approximately $565 million, based on the value as of december 29, 2007 (a decrease in value of $134 million, based on the value as of december 30, 2006 using an assumed loss of 30%). this estimate is not necessarily indicative of future performance, and actual results may differ materially. the increase in exposure from december 30, 2006 to december 29, 2007 is due to our purchase of vmware during 2007, its stock price volatility, and the weight of our investment in vmware in relation to our total marketable equity securities. many of the same factors that could result in an adverse movement of equity market prices affect our non-marketable equity investments, although we cannot quantify the impact directly. such a movement and the underlying economic conditions would negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of our being able to realize value in our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. these types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can be no assurance that any specific company will grow or become successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our investment. our non-marketable equity investments, excluding investments accounted for under the equity method, had a carrying amount of $805 million as of december 29, 2007 ($733 million as of december 30, 2006). the carrying amount of these investments approximated fair value as of december 29, 2007 and december 30, 2006. as of december 29, 2007, the carrying amount of our non-marketable equity method investments was $2.6 billion ($2.0 billion as of december 30, 2006) and consisted primarily of our investment in imft of $2.2 billion ($1.3 billion as of december 30, 2006). 45 table of contentsrisk factors 16 risk factors fluctuations in demand for our products may harm our financial results and are difficult to forecast. current uncertainty in global economic conditions poses a risk to the overall economy, as consumers and businesses have deferred and may continue to defer purchases in response to tighter credit and less discretionary spending, which negatively affect product demand and other related matters. if demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and gross margin could be harmed. important factors that could cause demand for our products to fluctuate include: changes in business and economic conditions, including a downturn in the semiconductor industry and/or the overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market, expectations for inflation, and energy prices; changes in the level of customers components inventory; competitive pressures, including pricing pressures, from companies that have competing products, chip architectures, manufacturing technologies, and marketing programs; changes in customer product needs; strategic actions taken by our competitors; and market acceptance of our products. if product demand decreases, our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be under-utilized, and we may be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. in addition, if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record under-utilization charges, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. factory-planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, and cause us to accelerate depreciation. in the long term, if product demand increases, we may not be able to add manufacturing or assembly and test capacity fast enough to meet market demand. these changes in demand for our products, and changes in our customers product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments of our assets. the recent financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern threats to financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets; a low level of liquidity in many financial markets; and extreme volatility in credit, fixed income, and equity markets. there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on intel business, including insolvency of key suppliers, resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations; increased expense or inability to obtain short-term financing of intel operations from the issuance of commercial paper; and increased impairment charges due to declines in the fair values of marketable debt or equity investments. the current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increase the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity investments will differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. the semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, and by product demand that is highly variable and subject to significant downturns that may harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. the semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by high costs, such as those related to facility construction and equipment, r d, and employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. at the same time, demand for our products is highly variable and there have been downturns, often in connection with maturing product cycles as well as downturns in general economic market conditions, such as the current economic environment. these downturns have been characterized by reduced product demand, manufacturing overcapacity and resulting excess capacity charges, high inventory levels, and lower average selling prices. the combination of these factors may cause our revenue, gross margin, cash flow, and profitability to vary significantly in both the short and long term. 16 table of contents we operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products could harm our ability to compete. we operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. to compete successfully, we must maintain a successful r d effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. we may not be able to develop and market these new products successfully, the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers, and products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect demand for our products. these types of events could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize impairments on our assets. we may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. we may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. as described in note 24: contingencies in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k, we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters, particularly with respect to competition. litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. an unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products. if we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. we invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. we make investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. such investments include equity or debt instruments of public or private companies, and many of these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. these companies range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. the success of these companies is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors. the companies in which we invest may fail because they may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or take advantage of liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. the current economic environment may increase the risk of failure for many of the companies in which we invest due to limited access to credit and reduced frequency of liquidity events. if any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an equity investment in a public or private company in which we have invested, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. the majority of our non-marketable equity investment portfolio balance is concentrated in companies in the flash memory market segment and wireless connectivity market segment, and declines in these market segments or changes in management plans with respect to our investments in these market segments could result in significant impairment charges, impacting gains/losses on equity method investments and gains/losses on other equity investments. furthermore, when the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment. our non-marketable equity investments in private companies are not liquid, and we may not be able to dispose of these investments on favorable terms or at all. the occurrence of any of these events could harm our results of operations. additionally, for cases in which we are required under equity method accounting to recognize a proportionate share of another company income or loss, such income and loss may impact our earnings. gains or losses from equity securities could vary from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, gains or losses from equity method investments, and impairment charges related to debt instruments as well as equity and other investments. our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see critical accounting estimates in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k). such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. the current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increase the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity investments will differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. 17 table of contents fluctuations in the mix of products sold may harm our financial results. because of the wide price differences among and within mobile, desktop, and server microprocessors, the mix and types of performance capabilities of microprocessors sold affect the average selling price of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. our financial results also depend in part on the mix of other products that we sell, such as chipsets, flash memory, and other semiconductor products. in addition, more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production ramp. fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product, and as a result can harm our financial results. our global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results of operations and financial condition. we have sales offices, r d, manufacturing, and assembly and test facilities in many countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. our global operations may be subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products in particular countries, which could, in turn, harm our results of operations and financial condition, including: security concerns, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity; health concerns; natural disasters; inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers and supply chain interruptions; differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices; regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings. in addition, although most of our products are sold in u.s. dollars, we incur a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as certain investing and financing activities, in local currencies. our hedging programs reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange rates could harm our business operating results and financial condition. in addition, changes in tariff and import regulations and in u.s. and non-u.s. monetary policies may harm our operating results and financial condition by increasing our expenses and reducing our revenue. varying tax rates in different jurisdictions could harm our operating results and financial condition by increasing our overall tax rate. we maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. the types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. losses not covered by insurance may be substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the recent financial crisis could pose solvency risks for our insurers, which could reduce our coverage if one or more of our insurance providers is unable to pay a claim. failure to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of operations. production of integrated circuits is a complex process. disruptions in this process can result from interruptions in our processes, errors, and difficulties in our development and implementation of new processes; defects in materials; disruptions in our supply of materials or resources; and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to, for example, accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. we may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. the occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting in higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific product demand. the unavailability or reduced availability of certain products could make it more difficult to implement our platform strategy. we may also experience increases in yields. a substantial increase in yields could result in higher inventory levels and the possibility of resulting excess capacity charges as we slow production to reduce inventory levels. the occurrence of any of these events could harm our business and results of operations. 18 table of contents we may have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our costs. we have thousands of suppliers providing various materials that we use in the production of our products and other aspects of our business, and we seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of those materials. however, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these materials. the inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production processes or could make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. in addition, production could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, and gases. the unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or resources that we use in our business may require us to reduce production of products or may require us to incur additional costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of those materials or resources. the occurrence of any of these events could harm our business and results of operations. costs related to product defects and errata may harm our results of operations and business. costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) due to, for example, unanticipated problems in our manufacturing processes, include: writing off the value of inventory of defective products; disposing of defective products that cannot be fixed; recalling defective products that have been shipped to customers; providing product replacements for, or modifications to, defective products; and/or defending against litigation related to defective products. these costs could be substantial and may therefore increase our expenses and lower our gross margin. in addition, our reputation with our customers or users of our products could be damaged as a result of such product defects and errata, and the demand for our products could be reduced. these factors could harm our financial results and the prospects for our business. we may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business. from time to time, third parties may assert against us or our customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. as described in note 24: contingencies in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k, we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters involving intellectual property rights. we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from certain individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending, and resolving such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business. as a result of such intellectual property infringement claims, we could be required or otherwise decide that it is appropriate to: pay third-party infringement claims; discontinue manufacturing, using, or selling particular products subject to infringement claims; discontinue using the technology or processes subject to infringement claims; develop other technology not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible; and/or license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. the occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in unexpected expenses or require us to recognize an impairment of our assets, which would reduce the value of our assets and increase expenses. in addition, if we alter or discontinue our production of affected items, our revenue could be harmed. 19 table of contents we may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our business. our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. when we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. in addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us. if we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of operations. in addition, governments may adopt regulations or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property to others, or governments may require that products meet specified standards that serve to favor local companies. our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may harm our competitive position and our business. our licenses with other companies and our participation in industry initiatives may allow other companies, including our competitors, to use our patent rights. companies in the semiconductor industry often rely on the ability to license patents from each other in order to compete. many of our competitors have broad licenses or cross-licenses with us, and under current case law, some of these licenses may permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others. if one of these licensees becomes a foundry, our competitors might be able to avoid our patent rights in manufacturing competing products. in addition, our participation in industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to other companies that adopt certain industry standards or specifications, even when such organizations do not adopt standards or specifications proposed by us. as a result, our patents implicated by our participation in industry initiatives might not be available for us to enforce against others who might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those patents, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our intellectual property may be impaired. changes in our decisions with regard to restructuring and efficiency efforts, and other factors, could affect our results of operations and financial condition. factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations with regard to restructuring actions include: timing and execution of plans and programs that may be subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and postretirement costs; future dispositions; new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap, development, and manufacturing; changes in employment levels and turnover rates; changes in product demand and the business environment, including changes related to the current uncertainty in global economic conditions; and changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets. in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations. in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees. hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. to help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as employee stock options and non-vested share units (restricted stock units). if the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. 20 table of contents our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of operations. the manufacturing and assembling and testing of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of ehs laws and regulations. our failure to comply with any of these applicable laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes; and curtailment of our operations or sales. in addition, our failure to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or future liabilities. existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our product designs, or incur other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of one or more of such materials in our manufacturing, assembly and test processes, or products. any of these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our business. in addition to the possible direct economic impact that climate change could have on us, climate change mitigation programs and regulation can increase our costs. for example, the cost of perfluorocompounds (pfcs), a gas that we use in our manufacturing, could increase over time under some climate-change-focused emissions trading programs that may be imposed by government regulation. if the use of pfcs is prohibited, we would need to obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. we also see the potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change regulations. our costs could increase if utility companies pass on their costs, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable portfolio standards. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disasters or events. many of our operations are located in semi-arid regions, such as israel and the southwestern united states. some scenarios predict that these regions may become even more vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate change. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and our decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. 21 table of contents interest and other, net could be harmed by macroeconomic and other factors. factors that could cause interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of income to fluctuate include: fixed-income, equity, and credit market volatility, such as that which is being experienced in the current global economic environment; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in our cash and investment balances; and changes in our hedge accounting treatment. our acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as joint ventures. acquisitions and other transactions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: we may not be able to identify suitable opportunities at terms acceptable to us; the transaction may not advance our business strategy; we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; or we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed terms and financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions. these circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to businesses that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. if we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to: failure to obtain required regulatory or other approvals; intellectual property or other litigation; difficulties that we or other parties may encounter in obtaining financing for the transaction; or other factors. further, acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. these factors could harm our business and results of operations. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, primarily changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. we use derivative financial instruments primarily to manage currency exchange rate risk and interest rate risk, and to a lesser extent, equity market risk and commodity price risk. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions as of december 27, 2008 and december 29, 2007. actual results may differ materially. currency exchange rates we generally hedge currency risks of non-u.s.-dollar-denominated investments in debt instruments with offsetting currency borrowings, currency forward contracts, or currency interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these non-u.s.-currency investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in a negligible net exposure. a majority of our revenue, expense, and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, certain operating expenditures and capital purchases are incurred in or exposed to other currencies, primarily the euro, the japanese yen, and the israeli shekel. we have established balance sheet and forecasted transaction currency risk management programs to protect against fluctuations in fair value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in exchange rates. we generally utilize currency forward contracts and, to a lesser extent, currency options in these hedging programs. our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements (see risk factors in part i, item 1a of this form 10-k). we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that a weighted average adverse change of 20% in currency exchange rates could be experienced in the near term. such an adverse change, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less than $55 million at the end of 2008 (less than $35 million at the end of 2007, using a weighted average adverse change of 15% in currency exchange rates). the weighted average adverse change increased from the end of 2007 to the end of 2008, due to a higher relative weighting of more volatile currencies. interest rates we are exposed to interest rate risk related to our investment portfolio and debt issuances. the primary objective of our investments in debt instruments is to preserve principal while maximizing yields. to achieve this objective, the returns on our investments in debt instruments are generally based on three-month libor, or, if the maturities are longer than three months, the returns are generally swapped into u.s. dollar three-month libor-based returns. the current financial markets are extremely volatile. a hypothetical 1.0% decrease in interest rates, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our net investment position of approximately $135 million as of december 27, 2008 and $80 million as of december 29, 2007. the hypothetical 1.0% interest rate decrease would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our debt issuances of approximately $150 million as of december 27, 2008 and would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our investment portfolio of approximately $15 million as of december 27, 2008 (an increase in the fair value of our debt issuances of approximately $95 million as of december 29, 2007 and an increase in the fair value of our investment portfolio of approximately $15 million as of december 29, 2007). the fluctuations in fair value of our debt issuances and investment portfolio reflect only the direct impact of the change in interest rates. other economic variables, such as equity market fluctuations and changes in relative credit risk, could result in a significantly higher decline in our net investment portfolio. for further information on how credit risk is factored into the valuation of our investment portfolio and debt issuances, see fair value in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. equity prices our marketable equity investments include marketable equity securities and equity derivative instruments such as warrants and options. to the extent that our marketable equity securities have strategic value, we typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our equity market exposure through hedging activities; however, for our investments in strategic equity derivative instruments, including warrants, we may enter into transactions to reduce or eliminate the equity market risks. for securities that we no longer consider strategic, we evaluate legal, market, and economic factors in our decision on the timing of disposal and whether it is possible and appropriate to hedge the equity market risk. 53 table of contents the marketable equity securities included in trading assets are held to generate returns that seek to offset changes in liabilities related to the equity and other market risks of certain deferred compensation arrangements. the gains and losses from changes in fair value of these equity securities are offset by the gains and losses on the related liabilities. assuming a decline in market prices of approximately 25%, our net exposure to loss was approximately $40 million as of december 27, 2008 and approximately $20 million as of december 29, 2007. as of december 27, 2008, the fair value of our available-for-sale marketable equity securities and our equity derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $362 million ($1.0 billion as of december 29, 2007). our investments in the new clearwire corporation, vmware, and micron constituted 90% of our marketable equity securities as of december 27, 2008, and were carried at a fair market value of $148 million, $137 million, and $42 million, respectively. the current equity markets are extremely volatile. assuming a loss of 60% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, the aggregate value of our marketable equity investments could decrease by approximately $220 million, based on the value as of december 27, 2008 (a decrease in value of $565 million, based on the value as of december 29, 2007 using an assumed loss of 55%). the increase in the assumed loss percentage from december 29, 2007 to december 27, 2008 is due to a higher relative weighting of more volatile investments. many of the same factors that could result in an adverse movement of equity market prices affect our non-marketable equity investments, although we cannot always quantify the impact directly. the current financial markets are extremely volatile and there has been a tightening of the credit markets, which could negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of our being able to realize value in our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. these types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can be no assurance that any specific company will grow or become successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our investment. our non-marketable equity investments, excluding investments accounted for under the equity method, had a carrying amount of $1.0 billion as of december 27, 2008 ($805 million as of december 29, 2007). as of december 27, 2008, the carrying amount of our non-marketable equity method investments was $3.0 billion ($2.6 billion as of december 29, 2007). most of the balance as of december 27, 2008 was concentrated in companies in the flash memory market segment and wireless connectivity market segment. our flash memory market segment investments include our investment of $1.7 billion in imft ($2.2 billion as of december 29, 2007), $329 million in imfs ($146 million as of december 29, 2007), and $484 million in numonyx. our wireless connectivity market segment investments include our non-marketable equity method investment in clearwire llc of $238 million. see note 6: equity method and cost method investments in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. 54 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information appearing under the subheading "financial market risks" under the heading "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" on pages 16 and 17 of our 2001 annual report to stockholders is incorporated by reference. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 15 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47risk factors 14 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 45quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and marketable equity security prices. to mitigate these risks, we utilize derivative financial instruments, among other strategies. other than warrants and other equity derivatives that we acquired for strategic purposes, we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions at december 28, 2002. actual results may differ materially. 42 we generally hedge currency risks of non-u.s. dollar-denominated investments in debt securities with offsetting currency borrowings, currency forward contracts or currency interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these non-u.s.-currency investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in negligible net exposure. a substantial majority of our revenue, expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we do enter into these transactions in other currencies, primarily the euro and certain other european and asian currencies. to protect against reductions in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we have established transaction and balance sheet hedging programs. currency forward contracts and currency options are utilized in these hedging programs. our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% for the euro and certain other european, asian and south american currencies and 10% for all other currencies could be experienced in the near term. such adverse changes, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less than $10 million as of the end of each of 2002 and 2001. the primary objective of our investments in debt securities is to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, the returns on a substantial majority of our marketable investments in long-term fixed rate debt securities are swapped to u.s. dollar libor-based returns. we considered the historical volatility of the three-month libor rate experienced in the past year and determined that it was reasonably possible that an adverse change of 80 basis points, approximately 57% of the rate at the end of 2002, could be experienced in the near term. a hypothetical 0.80% (80-basis-point) increase in interest rates, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have resulted in a less than $5 million decrease in the fair value of our investments in debt securities as of the end of 2002 and an approximate $10 million decrease as of the end of 2001. we have a portfolio of equity investments that includes marketable securities classified as either long-term investments or trading assets, as well as derivative equity instruments such as warrants and options. to the extent that these investments continue to have strategic value, we typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure. for those securities that are no longer considered strategic, management will evaluate market and economic factors in its decision on the timing of disposal and whether it is possible and appropriate to hedge the equity market risk. our investments are generally in companies in the high-technology industry, and a substantial majority of the market value of the portfolio is in two sectors: computing and communications, including networking and storage companies. as of december 28, 2002, the fair value of the company's portfolio of marketable equity securities and equity derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $335 million. we analyzed the historical movements over the past several years of high-technology stock indices that we considered appropriate. based on the analysis, we estimated that it was reasonably possible that the prices of the stocks in our portfolio could experience a 30% adverse change in the near term. assuming a 30% adverse change in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, our portfolio would decrease in value by approximately $30 million, based on the value of the portfolio as of december 28, 2002 (a decrease in value of $70 million based on the portfolio as of the end of 2001). this estimate is not necessarily indicative of future performance, and actual results may differ materially. the marketable portfolio is substantially concentrated in a small number of companies, which may affect the portfolio's price volatility; however, the majority of the portfolio's value is hedged. an adverse movement of equity market prices would also have an impact on our strategic investments in non-marketable equity securities, although the impact cannot be directly quantified. such a movement and the related underlying economic conditions would negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital and the likelihood of our being able to realize our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers and private sales. at december 28, 2002, our strategic investments in non-marketable equity securities had a carrying amount of $730 million, excluding equity derivatives that are subject to mark-to-market requirements. 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and marketable equity security prices. to mitigate these risks, we may utilize derivative financial instruments, among other strategies. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions at december 27, 2003. actual results may differ materially. currency exchange rates. we generally hedge currency risks of non-u.s. dollar-denominated investments in debt securities with offsetting currency borrowings, currency forward contracts or currency interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these non-u.s.-currency investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in negligible net exposure. a substantial majority of our revenue, expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we do enter into transactions in other currencies, primarily the euro and certain other european and asian currencies. to protect against reductions in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we have established balance sheet and forecasted transaction hedging programs. currency forward contracts are utilized in these hedging programs. our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. such adverse changes, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less than $10 million as of the end of each of 2003 and 2002. interest rates. the primary objective of our investments in debt securities is to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, the returns on a substantial majority of our marketable investments in long-term fixed rate debt securities are swapped to u.s. dollar libor-based returns. we considered the historical volatility of the three-month libor rate experienced in prior years and determined that it was reasonably possible that an adverse change of 80 basis points, approximately 68% of the rate at the end of 2003, could be experienced in the near term. a hypothetical 0.80% (80-basis-point) increase in interest rates, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our investment securities of approximately $10 million or less as of the end of each of 2003 and 2002. marketable equity security prices. we have a portfolio of equity investments that includes marketable strategic equity securities, trading assets and derivative equity instruments such as warrants and options, as well as non-marketable equity investments. we invest in companies that develop software, hardware and other technologies or provide services supporting technologies. this strategic investment program helps advance our overall mission to be the preeminent supplier of building blocks to the worldwide internet economy. our current investment focus areas include: enabling mobile and internet client devices, helping to create the digital home, advancing high-performance communications infrastructure and developing the next generation of silicon production technologies. our focus areas tend to develop and change over time due to rapid advancements in the technology field. to the extent that our marketable portfolio of investments continues to have strategic value, we typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure. for those securities that we no longer consider strategic, we evaluate market and economic factors in our decision on the timing of disposal and whether it is possible and appropriate to hedge the equity market risk. as of december 27, 2003, the fair value of our portfolio of marketable equity investments and equity derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $591 million. to assess the market price sensitivity of our marketable portfolio, we analyzed the historical movements over the past several years of high-technology stock indices that we considered appropriate. based on the analysis of these indices, we estimated that it was reasonably possible that the prices of the stocks in our portfolio could experience a 30% adverse change in the near term. however, our marketable portfolio is substantially concentrated in one company, which will affect the marketable portfolio price volatility. we currently have an investment in micron technology, inc. of approximately $458 million, or 77% of the total marketable value including equity derivative instruments. the investment in micron is part of our strategy to support the development and supply of dynamic random access memory (dram) products. we analyzed the historical volatility of micron stock, and if the stock behaves with the same price volatility that it has in the past, we could experience a 60% loss. if we apply a 60% hypothetical change to the entire portfolio, the hypothetical loss would be significantly larger than the loss assuming a 30% decline. 49 table of contents index to financial statements the table below presents the fair value and hypothetical loss for our marketable portfolio given the specified percentage decreases in equity prices. the estimated decreases reflect the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, and are not necessarily indicative of future performance. actual results may differ materially. hypothetical loss (in millions) fair value 30% decrease 60% decrease december 27, 2003 $ 591 $ (161 ) $ (318 ) december 28, 2002 $ 335 $ (30 ) $ a 60% loss was not calculated as of december 28, 2002, as we did not have a similarly concentrated investment. non-marketable equity securities. our strategic investments in non-marketable equity securities would also be affected by an adverse movement of equity market prices, although the impact cannot be directly quantified. such a movement and the related underlying economic conditions would negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital and the likelihood of our being able to realize our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers and private sales. these types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can be no assurance that any specific company will grow or will become successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our investment. at december 27, 2003, our strategic investments in non-marketable equity securities had a carrying amount of $665 million, excluding equity derivatives that were subject to mark-to-market requirements. 50 table of contents index to financial statementsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in currency exchange rates, interest rates and marketable equity security prices. to mitigate these risks, we may utilize derivative financial instruments, among other strategies. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions at december 25, 2004. actual results may differ materially. currency exchange rates. we generally hedge currency risks of non-u.s.-dollar-denominated investments in debt securities with offsetting currency borrowings, currency forward contracts or currency interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these non-u.s.-currency investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in negligible net exposure. a substantial majority of our revenue, expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in u.s. dollars. however, we do enter into transactions in other currencies, primarily the euro and certain other european and asian currencies. to protect against reductions in value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we have established balance sheet and forecasted transaction risk management programs. currency forward contracts and currency options are generally utilized in these hedging programs. our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates of 20% for all currencies could be experienced in the near term. such adverse changes, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less than $30 million and $10 million at the end of 2004 and 2003, respectively. interest rates. the primary objective of our investments in debt securities is to preserve principal while maximizing yields, without significantly increasing risk. to achieve this objective, the returns on our investments in fixed rate debt securities are generally swapped to u.s. dollar libor-based returns. we considered the historical volatility of the three-month libor rate experienced in prior years and the duration of our investment portfolio, and determined that it was reasonably possible that an adverse change of 80 basis points (0.80%), approximately 31% of the rate at the end of 2004, could be experienced in the near term. a hypothetical 0.80% increase in interest rates, after taking into account hedges and offsetting positions, would have resulted in a decrease in the fair value of our investment securities of approximately $20 million and $10 million as of the end of 2004 and 2003, respectively. marketable equity security prices. we have a portfolio of strategic equity investments that includes marketable strategic equity securities and derivative equity instruments such as warrants and options, as well as non-marketable equity investments. we invest in companies that develop software, hardware and other technologies or provide services supporting our technologies. this strategic investment program helps advance our overall goal to be the preeminent supplier of building blocks to the worldwide digital economy. our current investment focus areas include enabling mobile wireless devices, helping to advance the digital home, enhancing the digital enterprise, advancing high-performance communications infrastructures and developing the next generation of silicon production technologies. our focus areas tend to develop and change over time due to rapid advancements in the technology field. included in trading assets is a portfolio of marketable equity securities held to generate returns that generally offset changes in liabilities related to the equity market risk of certain deferred compensation arrangements. due to the offset, these securities have been excluded from the following market price sensitivity analysis. to the extent that our marketable portfolio of investments continues to have strategic value, we typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure. for those securities that we no longer consider strategic, we evaluate market and economic factors in our decision on the timing of disposal and whether it is possible and appropriate to hedge the equity market risk. as of december 25, 2004, the fair value of our portfolio of marketable equity investments and equity derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $662 million. 43 table of contents to assess the market price sensitivity of our marketable portfolio, we analyzed the historical movements over the past several years of high-technology stock indices that we considered appropriate. however, our marketable portfolio is substantially concentrated in two companies, which will affect the marketable portfolio price volatility. we currently have an investment in micron technology, inc. with a fair value of approximately $400 million, or 60% of the total marketable portfolio value including equity derivative instruments at december 25, 2004. in addition, we have an investment in elpida memory, inc. with a fair value of approximately $212 million, or 32% of the total marketable portfolio value including equity derivative instruments at december 25, 2004. prior to elpida public offering, this investment was included in our non-marketable portfolio and therefore excluded from our 2003 market price sensitivity analysis. the investments in micron and elpida are part of our strategy to support the development and supply of dynamic random access memory (dram) products. based on the analysis of the high-technology stock indices and the historical volatility of micron and elpida stock as of december 25, 2004, we estimated that it was reasonably possible that the prices of the stocks in our portfolio could experience a loss of 45% in the near term (55% as of the end of 2003). assuming a loss of 45% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, our portfolio could decrease in value by approximately $300 million, based on the value of the portfolio as of december 25, 2004. assuming a loss of 55% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, our portfolio could decrease in value by approximately $290 million, based on the value of the portfolio as of december 27, 2003. the assumed loss percentage used in 2004 is lower than the assumed loss percentage used in 2003 due to the differences in the concentration of investments during each year. this estimate is not necessarily indicative of future performance, and actual results may differ materially. non-marketable equity securities. our strategic investments in non-marketable equity securities would also be affected by an adverse movement of equity market prices, although the impact cannot be directly quantified. such a movement and the related underlying economic conditions would negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital and the likelihood of our being able to realize our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers and private sales. these types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can be no assurance that any specific company will grow or become successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our investment. at december 25, 2004, our strategic investments in non-marketable equity securities had a carrying amount of $507 million. no individual investment in our non-marketable portfolio was significant as of december 25, 2004. 44 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors changes in product demand may harm our financial results and are hard to predict. if product demand decreases, our revenue and profit could be harmed. important factors that could cause demand for our products to decrease include changes in: business conditions, including downturns in the computing industry, regional economies, and the overall economy; consumer confidence or income levels caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in government borrowing, taxation, or spending policies; the credit market; or expected inflation, employment, and energy or other commodity prices; the level of customers inventories; competitive and pricing pressures, including actions taken by competitors; customer product needs; market acceptance of our products and maturing product cycles; and the high-technology supply chain, including supply constraints caused by natural disasters or other events. our operations have high costs, such as those related to facility construction and equipment, r&amp;d, and employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. at the same time, demand for our products is highly variable. if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record excess capacity charges, which would lower our gross margin. our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to write down our long-lived assets, which would increase our expenses. factory-planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of facilities and equipment and cause us to accelerate depreciation. if product demand increases, we may be unable to add capacity fast enough to meet market demand. these changes in product demand, and changes in our customers product needs, could negatively affect our competitive position and may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to write down our assets. we operate in highly competitive industries, and our failure to anticipate and respond to technological and market developments could harm our ability to compete. we operate in highly competitive industries that experience rapid technological and market developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer needs, and frequent product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to these developments, we may weaken our competitive position, and our products or technologies may be uncompetitive or obsolete. as computing market segments emerge, such as netbooks, smartphones, tablets, and consumer electronics devices, we face new sources of competition and customers with different needs than customers in our pc business. to be successful, we need to cultivate new industry relationships in these market segments. as the number and variety of internet-connected devices increase, we need to improve the cost, connectivity, energy efficiency, and security of our platforms to succeed in these new market segments. and we need to expand our software capabilities in order to provide customers with complete computing solutions. to compete successfully, we must maintain a successful r&amp;d effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes ahead of competitors. our r&amp;d efforts are critical to our success and are aimed at solving complex problems, and we do not expect that all of our projects will be successful. we may be unable to develop and market new products successfully, the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers, and products and technologies offered by others may affect demand for our products. these types of events could negatively affect our competitive position and may reduce revenue, increase costs, lower gross margin percentage, or require us to impair our assets. changes in the mix of products sold may harm our financial results. because of the wide price differences in notebook, netbook, smartphone, tablet, desktop, and server microprocessors, the mix of microprocessors sold affects the average selling prices of our products and has a large impact on our revenue and gross margin. our financial results also depend on the mix of other products that we sell, such as chipsets, flash memory, and other semiconductor products. more recently introduced products tend to have higher costs because of initial development and production, and changes in the mix of products sold may affect our ability to recover our fixed costs and product investments. our global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results of operations and financial condition. we have sales offices, r&amp;d, manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, and other facilities in many countries, and some business activities may be concentrated in one or more geographic areas. as a result, our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products may be affected by: security concerns, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity; natural disasters and health concerns; inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as supply chain interruptions and large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities, transportation, or telecommunications providers; restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings; differing employment practices and labor issues; and local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and other anti-corruption laws and regulations. 13 table of contents legal and regulatory requirements differ among jurisdictions worldwide. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. although we have policies, controls, and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, or agents may violate our policies. although most of our sales occur in u.s. dollars, expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses may be paid in local currencies. we also conduct certain investing and financing activities in local currencies. our hedging programs reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements; therefore, changes in exchange rates could harm our results and financial condition. changes in tariff and import regulations and in u.s. and non-u.s. monetary policies may harm our results and financial condition by increasing our expenses and reducing revenue. varying tax rates in different jurisdictions could harm our results of operations and financial condition by increasing our overall tax rate. we maintain a program of insurance coverage for a variety of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with multiple carriers in numerous jurisdictions. however, one or more of our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. the types and amounts of insurance we obtain vary depending on availability, cost, and decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies have deductibles and exclusions that result in us retaining a level of self-insurance. losses not covered by insurance may be large, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. failure to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of operations. production of integrated circuits is a complex process. disruptions in this process can result from errors; difficulties in our development and implementation of new processes; defects in materials; disruptions in our supply of materials or resources; and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. we may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. production issues may result in our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting in higher costs or large decreases in yields, which could affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet product demand. the unavailability or reduced availability of products could make it more difficult to deliver computing platforms. the occurrence of these events could harm our business and results of operations. we may have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our ability to meet demand and increase our costs. we have thousands of suppliers providing materials that we use in production and other aspects of our business, and we seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of those materials. however, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single location, for these materials. the inability of suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production processes or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. production could be disrupted by the unavailability of resources used in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, gases, and other materials. future environmental regulations could restrict the supply or increase the cost of materials that we use in our business and make it more difficult to obtain permits to build or modify manufacturing capacity to meet demand. the unavailability or reduced availability of materials or resources may require us to reduce production or incur additional costs. the occurrence of these events could harm our business and results of operations. costs related to product defects and errata may harm our results of operations and business. costs of product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) due to, for example, problems in our design and manufacturing processes, could include: writing off the value of inventory; disposing of products that cannot be fixed; recalling products that have been shipped; providing product replacements or modifications; and defending against litigation. these costs could be large and may increase expenses and lower gross margin. our reputation with customers or end users could be damaged as a result of product defects and errata, and product demand could be reduced. the announcement of product defects and errata could cause customers to purchase products from competitors as a result of possible shortages of intel components or for other reasons. these factors could harm our business and financial results. 14 table of contents third parties may attempt to breach our network security, which could damage our reputation and financial results. we regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the internet or introduce malicious software to our it systems. these attempts which might be the result of industrial or other espionage, or actions by hackers seeking to harm the company, its products, or end users are sometimes successful. in part because of the high profile of our mcafee subsidiary in the network and system protection business, we might become a target of computer hackers who create viruses to sabotage or otherwise attack our products and services. hackers might attempt to penetrate our network security and gain access to our network and our data centers, steal proprietary information, including personally identifiable information, or interrupt our internal systems and services. we seek to detect and investigate these security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. third parties may claim infringement of ip, which could harm our business. we may face ip infringement claims from individuals and companies, including those who have acquired patent portfolios to assert claims against other companies. we are engaged in a number of litigation matters involving ip. claims that our products or processes infringe the ip of others could cause us to incur large costs to respond to, defend, and resolve the claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel. as a result of ip infringement claims, we could: pay infringement claims; stop manufacturing, using, or selling products or technology subject to infringement claims; develop other products or technology not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible; or license technology from the party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. these actions could harm our competitive position, result in expenses, or require us to impair our assets. if we alter or stop production of affected items, our revenue could be harmed. we may be unable to enforce or protect our ip, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our business. our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other ip is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our ip in various countries. when we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the ip is invalid, not enforceable, or licensed to the opposing party. our assertion of ip often results in the other party seeking to assert claims against us, which could harm our business. governments may adopt regulations and governments or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of ip, or governments may require products to meet standards that serve to favor local companies. our inability to enforce our ip under these circumstances may harm our competitive position and business. we may be subject to ip theft or misuse, which could result in claims and harm our business and results of operations. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; the value of our investment in r&amp;d, product development, and marketing could be reduced; and third parties might make claims related to losses of confidential or proprietary information or end-user data, or system reliability. these incidents and claims could severely disrupt our business, and we could suffer losses, including the cost of product recalls and returns and reputational harm. our licenses with other companies and participation in industry initiatives may allow competitors to use our patent rights. companies in the computing industry often bilaterally license patents between each other to settle disputes or as part of business agreements between them. our competitors may have licenses to our patents, and under current case law, some of the licenses may permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others under some circumstances. our participation in industry standards organizations or with other industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to companies that adopt industry-standard specifications. depending on the rules of the organization, we might have to grant these licenses to our patents for little or no cost, and as a result, we may be unable to enforce certain patents against others, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our ip may be impaired. litigation or regulatory proceedings could harm our business. we may face legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. as described in note 29: contingencies in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k, we are engaged in a number of litigation and regulatory matters. litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling products, engaging in business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. 15 table of contents we face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties. we sell a portion of our products through third parties such as distributors, value-added resellers, oems, internet service providers, and channel partners (collectively referred to as distributors). using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. distributors may sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to focus distributors on the sale of our products. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. violations of fcpa or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. failing to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. we face risks related to sales to government entities. we derive a portion of our revenue from sales to government entities and their respective agencies. government demand and payment for our products may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations. government contracts are subject to oversight, including special rules on accounting, expenses, reviews, and security. failing to comply with these rules could result in civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, fines and suspensions, or debarment from future government business. we invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. we make investments in companies around the world to further strategic objectives and support key business initiatives. these investments include equity or debt instruments of public or private companies, and many of these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. companies range from early-stage companies that are still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. the companies in which we invest may fail because they may be unable to secure additional funding, obtain favorable terms for future financings, or participate in liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. if any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment. if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an investment, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize a loss. we have large investments in the flash memory market segment, and declines in this market segment or changes in management plans with respect to our investments in this market segment could result in large impairment charges, impacting gains (losses) on equity investments, net. when the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment. we may incur losses on the disposal of non-marketable investments. for cases in which we are required under equity method accounting to recognize a proportionate share of another company income or loss, such income or loss may impact earnings. gains or losses from equity securities could vary from expectations, depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, gains or losses from equity investments, and impairment charges for equity and other investments. our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying accounting policies. the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying accounting policies have a large impact on our results of operations. for further information, see critical accounting estimates in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. these methods, estimates, and judgments are subject to large risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and changes could affect our results of operations. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our effective tax rates, which could reduce our net income, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and in deferred tax valuation allowances; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including changes in the u.s. to the taxation of foreign income and expenses; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; and our decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. 16 table of contents decisions about the scope of operations of our business could affect our results of operations and financial condition. changes in the business environment could lead to changes in the scope of our operations, resulting in restructuring and asset impairment charges. factors that could affect our results of operations and financial condition due to a change in the scope of our operations include: timing and execution of plans and programs subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and postretirement costs; divestitures; new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap, development, and manufacturing; changes in employment levels and turnover rates; changes in product demand and the business environment; and changes in the fair value of long-lived assets. our acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements for possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as joint ventures. acquisitions and other transactions involve large challenges and risks, including risks that: we may be unable to identify opportunities on terms acceptable to us; the transaction may not advance our business strategy; we may not realize a satisfactory return; we may be unable to retain key personnel; we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; acquired businesses may not have adequate controls, processes, and procedures to ensure compliance with laws and regulations, and our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities; we may have difficulty entering new market segments; or we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty selling on acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed terms and financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions. these circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur added expense, or we may sell a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. if we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to factors such as: failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals; ip disputes or other litigation; or difficulties obtaining financing for the transaction. our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could harm our business and results of operations. the manufacturing and assembling and testing of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of ehs laws and regulations. our failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes; and restrictions on our operations or sales. our failure to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could lead to increased costs or future liabilities. environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify product designs, or incur other expenses. many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under environmental laws and regulations. these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter manufacturing and assembly and test processes. 17 table of contents climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations and affect the way we conduct business. in addition to the possible direct economic impact that climate change could have on us, climate change mitigation programs and regulations can increase our costs. the cost of perfluorocompounds (pfcs) a gas that we use in manufacturing could increase under some climate-change-focused emissions trading programs that may be imposed by regulation. if the use of pfcs is prohibited, we would need to obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. air-quality permit requirements for our manufacturing operations could become more burdensome and cause delays in our ability to modify or build additional manufacturing capacity. under recently adopted greenhouse gas regulations in the u.s., many of our manufacturing facilities have become major sources under the clean air act. at a minimum, this change in status results in some uncertainty as the epa adopts guidance on its greenhouse gas regulations. due to the dynamic nature of our operations, it is likely that these regulations will result in increased costs for our u.s. operations. these cost increases could be associated with new air pollution control requirements, and increased or new monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. we also see the potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change regulations. our costs could increase if utility companies pass on their costs, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable portfolio standards. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disasters or events. many of our operations are located in semi-arid regions, such as israel and the southwestern u.s. some scenarios predict that these regions may become even more vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate change. a number of factors could lower interest and other, net, harming our results of operations. factors that could lower interest and other, net in our income statements include changes in fixed-income, equity, and credit markets; foreign currency exchange rates; interest rates; credit standing of financial instrument counterparties; our cash and investment balances; and our indebtedness. 18 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we use derivative financial instruments primarily to manage currency exchange rate and interest rate risk, and, to a lesser extent, equity market risk. all of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions as of december 31, 2011 and december 25, 2010. actual results may differ materially. currency exchange rates in general, we economically hedge currency risks of non-u.s.-dollar-denominated investments in debt instruments and loans receivable with currency forward contracts or currency interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these non-u.s.-currency investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in an insignificant net exposure to loss. substantially all of our revenue is transacted in u.s. dollars. however, a significant amount of our operating expenditures and capital purchases is incurred in or exposed to other currencies, primarily the japanese yen, the euro, the israeli shekel, and the chinese yuan. we have established balance sheet and forecasted transaction currency risk management programs to protect against fluctuations in fair value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in exchange rates. we generally utilize currency forward contracts in these hedging programs. our hedging programs reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. for further information, see risk factors in part i, item 1a of this form 10-k. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that a weighted average adverse change of 20% in currency exchange rates could be experienced in the near term. such an adverse change, after taking into account balance sheet hedges only and offsetting recorded monetary asset and liability positions, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less than $40 million as of december 31, 2011 (less than $35 million as of december 25, 2010). interest rates we generally hedge interest rate risks of fixed-rate debt instruments with interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in an insignificant net exposure to interest rate loss. we are exposed to interest rate risk related to our investment portfolio and indebtedness. our indebtedness includes our debt issuances and the liability associated with a long-term patent cross-license agreement with nvidia. for further information, see note 17: identified intangible assets in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. the primary objective of our investments in debt instruments is to preserve principal while maximizing yields, which generally track the u.s.-dollar three-month libor. a hypothetical decrease in interest rates of 1.0% would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our indebtedness of approximately $900 million as of december 31, 2011 (an increase of approximately $250 million as of december 25, 2010). the significant increase from december 25, 2010 is primarily driven by the inclusion of the $5.0 billion of senior unsecured notes issued in the third quarter of 2011. a hypothetical decrease in interest rates of up to 1.0%, after taking into account investment hedges, would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our investment portfolio of approximately $20 million as of december 31, 2011 (an increase of approximately $15 million as of december 25, 2010). the fluctuations in fair value of our investment portfolio and indebtedness reflect only the direct impact of the change in interest rates. other economic variables, such as equity market fluctuations and changes in relative credit risk, could result in a significantly higher decline in the fair value of our net investment position. for further information on how credit risk is factored into the valuation of our investment portfolio and debt issuances, see note 5: fair value in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. equity prices our marketable equity investments include marketable equity securities and equity derivative instruments such as warrants and options. to the extent that our marketable equity securities have strategic value, we typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our equity market exposure through hedging activities; however, for our investments in strategic equity derivative instruments, we may enter into transactions to reduce or eliminate the equity market risks. for securities that we no longer consider strategic, we evaluate legal, market, and economic factors in our decision on the timing of disposal and whether it is possible and appropriate to hedge the equity market risk. we hold derivative instruments that seek to offset changes in liabilities related to the equity market risks of certain deferred compensation arrangements. the gains and losses from changes in fair value of these derivatives are designed to offset the gains and losses on the related liabilities, resulting in an insignificant net exposure to loss. 41 table of contents as of december 31, 2011, the fair value of our marketable equity investments and our equity derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $585 million ($1.5 billion as of december 25, 2010). our marketable equity investment in imagination technologies group plc was carried at a total fair market value of $327 million, or 56% of our marketable equity portfolio, as of december 31, 2011. our marketable equity method investments are excluded from our analysis, as the carrying value does not fluctuate based on market price changes unless an other-than-temporary impairment is deemed necessary. to determine reasonably possible decreases in the market value of our marketable equity investments, we analyzed the expected market price sensitivity of our marketable equity investment portfolio. assuming a loss of 45% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, the aggregate value of our marketable equity investments could decrease by approximately $265 million, based on the value as of december 31, 2011 (a decrease in value of approximately $365 million, based on the value as of december 25, 2010 using an assumed loss of 40%). many of the same factors that could result in an adverse movement of equity market prices affect our non-marketable equity investments, although we cannot always quantify the impact directly. financial markets are volatile, which could negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of our being able to realize value in our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. these types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can be no assurance that any specific company will grow or become successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our investment. our non-marketable equity investments, excluding investments accounted for under the equity method, had a carrying amount of $1.1 billion as of december 31, 2011 ($872 million as of december 25, 2010). as of december 31, 2011, the carrying amount of our non-marketable equity method investments was $1.6 billion ($1.8 billion as of december 25, 2010). approximately half of the total non-marketable equity investments balance as of december 31, 2011 was concentrated in our imft/imfs investment of $1.3 billion ($1.5 billion as of december 25, 2010). 42 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors changes in product demand may harm our financial results and are hard to predict. if product demand decreases, our revenue and profit could be harmed. important factors that could cause demand for our products to decrease include changes in: business conditions, including downturns in the computing industry, regional economies, and the overall economy; consumer confidence or income levels caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in government borrowing, taxation, or spending policies; the credit market; or expected inflation, employment, and energy or other commodity prices; the level of customers inventories; competitive and pricing pressures, including actions taken by competitors; customer product needs; market acceptance of our products and maturing product cycles; and the technology supply chain, including supply constraints caused by natural disasters or other events. our operations have high costs including costs related to facility construction and equipment, r&amp;d, and employment and training of a highly skilled workforce that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. at the same time, demand for our products is highly variable. if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record excess capacity charges, which would lower our gross margin. our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to write down our long-lived assets, which would increase our expenses. factory-planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of facilities and equipment and cause us to accelerate depreciation. if product demand increases, we may be unable to add capacity fast enough to meet market demand. these changes in product demand, and changes in our customers product needs, could negatively affect our competitive position and may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to write down our assets. we operate in highly competitive industries, and our failure to anticipate and respond to technological and market developments could harm our ability to compete. we operate in highly competitive industries that experience rapid technological and market developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer needs, and frequent product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate and respond to these developments, we may weaken our competitive position, and our products or technologies may be uncompetitive or obsolete. as computing market segments emerge, such as smartphones, tablets, and consumer electronics devices, we face new sources of competition and customers with different needs than customers in our pc business. some of our competitors in these market segments are pursuing a vertical integration strategy, incorporating their soc solutions into the smartphones and tablets they offer, which could make it less likely that they will adopt our soc solutions. to be successful, we need to cultivate new industry relationships in these market segments. as the number and variety of internet-connected devices increase, we need to improve the cost, connectivity, energy efficiency, and security of our platforms to succeed in these market segments. and we need to expand our software capabilities to provide customers with comprehensive computing solutions. to compete successfully, we must maintain a successful r&amp;d effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes ahead of competitors. our r&amp;d efforts are critical to our success and are aimed at solving complex problems, and we do not expect all of our projects to be successful. we may be unable to develop and market new products successfully, and the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers. additionally, the products and technologies offered by others may affect demand for our products. these types of events could negatively affect our competitive position and may reduce revenue, increase costs, lower gross margin percentage, or require us to impair our assets. changes in the mix of products sold may harm our financial results. because of the wide price differences of platform average selling prices among our data center, pc client, and other intel architecture platforms, a change in the mix of platforms among these market segments may impact our revenue and gross margin. for example, our pc client platforms that are incorporated in notebook and desktop computers tend to have lower average selling prices and gross margin than our data center platforms that are incorporated in servers, workstations and storage products. therefore, if there is less demand for our data center platforms, and a resulting mix shift to our pc client platforms, our gross margins and revenue would decrease. also, more recently introduced products tend to have higher costs because of initial development costs and lower production volumes relative to the previous product generation, which can impact gross margin. 14 table of contents our global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results of operations and financial condition. we have sales offices, r&amp;d, manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, and other facilities in many countries, and some business activities may be concentrated in one or more geographic areas. as a result, our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products may be affected by: security concerns, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity; natural disasters and health concerns; inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as supply chain interruptions and large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities, transportation, or telecommunications providers; restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings; differing employment practices and labor issues; and local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and other anti-corruption laws and regulations. legal and regulatory requirements differ among jurisdictions worldwide. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. although we have policies, controls, and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, or agents may violate our policies. although most of our sales occur in u.s. dollars, expenses such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses may be paid in local currencies. we also conduct certain investing and financing activities in local currencies. our hedging programs reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements; therefore, changes in exchange rates could harm our results of operations and financial condition. changes in tariff and import regulations and in u.s. and non-u.s. monetary policies may harm our results of operations and financial condition by increasing our expenses and reducing revenue. differing tax rates in various jurisdictions could harm our results of operations and financial condition by increasing our overall tax rate. we maintain a program of insurance coverage for a variety of property, casualty, and other risks. we place our insurance coverage with multiple carriers in numerous jurisdictions. however, one or more of our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. the types and amounts of insurance we obtain vary depending on availability, cost, and decisions with respect to risk retention. the policies have deductibles and exclusions that result in us retaining a level of self-insurance. losses not covered by insurance may be large, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. failure to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of operations. production of integrated circuits is a complex process. disruptions in this process can result from errors; difficulties in our development and implementation of new processes; defects in materials; disruptions in our supply of materials or resources; and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. we may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. production issues may result in our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting in higher costs or large decreases in yields, which could affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet product demand. the unavailability or reduced availability of products could make it more difficult to deliver computing platforms. the occurrence of these events could harm our business and results of operations. we may have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our ability to meet demand and increase our costs. we have thousands of suppliers providing materials that we use in production and other aspects of our business, and where possible, we seek to have several sources of supply for all of those materials. however, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single location, for these materials. the inability of suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production processes or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. production could be disrupted by the unavailability of resources used in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, gases, and other materials. future environmental regulations could restrict the supply or increase the cost of materials that we use in our business and make it more difficult to obtain permits to build or modify manufacturing capacity to meet demand. the unavailability or reduced availability of materials or resources may require us to reduce production or incur additional costs. the occurrence of these events could harm our business and results of operations. 15 table of contents costs related to product defects and errata may harm our results of operations and business. costs of product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) due to, for example, problems in our design and manufacturing processes, could include: writing off the value of inventory; disposing of products that cannot be fixed; recalling products that have been shipped; providing product replacements or modifications; and defending against litigation. these costs could be large and may increase expenses and lower gross margin. our reputation with customers or end users could be damaged as a result of product defects and errata, and product demand could be reduced. the announcement of product defects and errata could cause customers to purchase products from competitors as a result of possible shortages of intel components or for other reasons. these factors could harm our business and financial results. third parties might attempt to breach our network security and our products and services, which could damage our reputation and financial results. we regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the internet or to introduce malicious software to our it systems. additionally, malicious hackers may attempt to gain unauthorized access and corrupt the processes of hardware and software products that we manufacture and services we provide. these attempts might be the result of industrial or other espionage or actions by hackers seeking to harm our company, our products and services, or users of our products and services. due to the widespread use of our products and due to the high profile of our mcafee subsidiary, we or our products and services are a frequent target of computer hackers and organizations that intend to sabotage, take control of, or otherwise corrupt our manufacturing or other processes, products and services. we are also a target of malicious attackers who attempt to gain access to our network or data centers or those of our customers or end users, steal proprietary information related to our business, products, employees and customers, or interrupt our systems and services or those of our customers or others. we believe such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication. these attacks are sometimes successful; and in some instances we, our customers and the users of our products and services might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. we seek to detect and investigate such attempts and incidents and to prevent their recurrence where practicable through changes to our internal processes and tools and/or changes or patches to our products and services, but in some cases preventive and remedial action might not be successful. such attacks, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in our incurring costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, reduced inventory value, providing modifications to our products and services, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. publicity about vulnerabilities and attempted or successful incursions could damage our reputation with customers or users and reduce demand for our products and services. we may be subject to theft, loss or misuse of personal data about us or our customers or other third parties, which could increase our expenses, damage our reputation or result in litigation. global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity are rapidly expanding and creating a complex compliance environment. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business could result in increased security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. costs to comply with and implement privacy-related and data protection measures could be significant. our failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. third parties may claim infringement of ip rights, which could harm our business. we may face ip rights infringement claims from individuals and companies, including those who have acquired patent portfolios to assert claims against other companies. we are engaged in a number of litigation matters involving ip rights. claims that our products or processes infringe the ip rights of others could cause us to incur large costs to respond to, defend, and resolve the claims, and they may divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel. as a result of ip rights infringement claims, we could: pay infringement claims; stop manufacturing, using, or selling products or technology subject to infringement claims; develop other products or technology not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming, costly or impossible; or license technology from the party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. these actions could harm our competitive position, result in expenses, or require us to impair our assets. if we alter or stop production of affected items, our revenue could be harmed. 16 table of contents we may be unable to enforce or protect our ip rights, which may harm our ability to compete and may harm our business. our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other ip rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our ip rights in various countries. when we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the ip rights are invalid, not enforceable, or licensed to the opposing party. our assertion of ip rights often results in the other party seeking to assert claims against us, which could harm our business. governments may adopt regulations and governments or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of ip rights, or governments may require products to meet standards that serve to favor local companies. our inability to enforce our ip rights under these circumstances may harm our competitive position and business. we may be subject to ip theft or misuse, which could result in claims against us and harm our business and results of operations. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; the value of our investment in r&amp;d, product development, and marketing could be reduced; and third parties might make claims against us related to losses of confidential or proprietary information or end-user data, or system reliability. these incidents and claims could severely disrupt our business, and we could suffer losses, including the cost of product recalls and returns and reputational harm. our licenses with other companies and participation in industry initiatives may allow competitors to use our patent rights. companies in the computing industry often bilaterally license patents between each other to settle disputes or as part of business agreements between them. our competitors may have licenses to our patents, and under current case law, some of the licenses may permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others under some circumstances. our participation in industry standards organizations or with other industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to companies that adopt industry-standard specifications. depending on the rules of the organization, we might have to grant these licenses to our patents for little or no cost, and as a result, we may be unable to enforce certain patents against others, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our ip rights may be impaired. litigation or regulatory proceedings could harm our business. we may face legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. as described in note 27: contingencies in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k, we are engaged in a number of litigation and regulatory matters. litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling products, engaging in business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. we face risks related to sales through distributors and other third parties. we sell a portion of our products through third parties such as distributors, value-added resellers, oems, internet service providers, and channel partners (collectively referred to as distributors). using third parties for distribution exposes us to many risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. distributors may sell products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to focus distributors on the sale of our products. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could harm our collection of accounts receivable and financial results. violations of fcpa or similar laws by distributors or other third-party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. failing to manage risks related to our use of distributors may reduce sales, increase expenses, and weaken our competitive position. we face risks related to sales to government entities. we derive a portion of our revenue from sales to government entities and their respective agencies. government demand and payment for our products may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations. government contracts are subject to oversight, including special rules on accounting, expenses, reviews, and security. failing to comply with these rules could result in civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, fines and suspensions, or debarment from future government business. we invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. we make investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support key business initiatives. these investments include equity or debt instruments of public or private companies, and many of these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. companies range from early-stage companies that are still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. the companies in which we invest may fail because they are unable to secure additional funding, obtain favorable terms for future financings, or participate in liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. if any of these companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment. if we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an investment, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize a loss, impacting gains (losses) on equity investments, net. the majority of our marketable equity security portfolio balance is concentrated in asml, and declines in the value of our asml holdings could result in impairment charges, impacting gains (losses) on equity investments, net. 17 table of contents our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying accounting policies. the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying accounting policies have a large impact on our results of operations. for more information, see critical accounting estimates in part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. these methods, estimates, and judgments are subject to large risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and changes could affect our results of operations. changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our effective tax rates, which could reduce our net income, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and in deferred tax valuation allowances; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or their interpretation, including changes in the u.s. to the taxation of non-u.s income and expenses; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; and our decision to repatriate non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. decisions about the scope of operations of our business could affect our results of operations and financial condition. changes in the business environment could lead to changes in the scope of our operations, resulting in restructuring and asset impairment charges. factors that could affect our results of operations and financial condition due to a change in the scope of our operations include: timing and execution of plans and programs subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and postretirement costs; divestitures; new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap, development, and manufacturing; changes in employment levels and turnover rates; changes in product demand and the business environment; and changes in the fair value of long-lived assets. our acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations. in pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements for possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as joint ventures. acquisitions and other transactions involve large challenges and risks, including risks that: we may be unable to identify opportunities on terms acceptable to us; the transaction may not advance our business strategy; we may not realize a satisfactory return; we may be unable to retain key personnel; we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; acquired businesses may not have adequate controls, processes, and procedures to ensure compliance with laws and regulations, and our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities; we may have difficulty entering new market segments; or we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty selling on acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed-upon terms and financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions. these circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur added expense, or we may sell a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. if we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to factors such as: failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals; ip disputes or other litigation; or difficulties obtaining financing for the transaction. 18 table of contents our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could harm our business and results of operations. the manufacturing and assembly and test of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of ehs laws and regulations. our failure to comply with these laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes; and restrictions on our operations or sales. our failure to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could lead to increased costs or future liabilities. environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify product designs, or incur other expenses. many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under environmental laws and regulations. these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter manufacturing and assembly and test processes. climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations and affect the way we conduct business. in addition to the possible direct economic impact that climate change could have on us, climate change mitigation programs and regulations can increase our costs. the cost of perfluorocompounds (pfcs) a gas that we use in manufacturing could increase under some climate-change-focused emissions trading programs that may be imposed through regulation. if the use of pfcs is prohibited, we would need to obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. air-quality permit requirements for our manufacturing operations could become more burdensome and cause delays in our ability to modify or build additional manufacturing capacity. under recently adopted greenhouse gas regulations in the u.s., many of our manufacturing facilities have become major sources under the clean air act. at a minimum, this change in status results in some uncertainty as the epa adopts guidance on its greenhouse gas regulations. due to the dynamic nature of our operations, these regulations will likely result in increased costs for our u.s. operations. these cost increases could be associated with new air pollution control requirements, and increased or new monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. we also see the potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change regulations. our costs could increase if utility companies pass on their costs, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable portfolio standards. while we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disasters or events. many of our operations are located in semi-arid regions, such as israel and the southwestern u.s. some scenarios predict that these regions may become even more vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate change. in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations. in order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees. hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. our current chief executive officer (ceo) plans to retire in may 2013, and the board of directors is working to choose a successor. the succession and transition process may have a direct or indirect effect on business and operations. in connection with the appointment of the new ceo, we will seek to retain our executive management team (some of whom are being considered for the ceo position), and keep employees focused on achieving our strategic goals and objectives. to help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as employee stock options and non-vested share units (restricted stock units). if the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. a number of factors could lower interest and other, net, harming our results of operations. factors that could lower interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of income include changes in fixed-income, equity, and credit markets; foreign currency exchange rates; interest rates; credit standing of financial instrument counterparties; our cash and investment balances; and our indebtedness. 19 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are directly and indirectly affected by changes in non-u.s. currency exchange rates, interest rates, and equity prices. all of the potential changes that follow are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial positions as of december 29, 2012 and december 31, 2011. actual results may differ materially. currency exchange rates in general, we economically hedge currency risks of non-u.s.-dollar-denominated investments in debt instruments and loans receivable with currency forward contracts or currency interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these non-u.s.-currency investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in an insignificant net exposure to loss. substantially all of our revenue is transacted in u.s. dollars. however, a significant amount of our operating expenditures and capital purchases is incurred in or exposed to other currencies, primarily the euro, the japanese yen, and the israeli shekel. we have established balance sheet and forecasted transaction currency risk management programs to protect against fluctuations in fair value and the volatility of the functional currency equivalent of future cash flows caused by changes in exchange rates. we generally utilize currency forward contracts in these hedging programs. our hedging programs reduce, but do not always eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. for further information, see risk factors in part i, item 1a of this form 10-k. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that a weighted average adverse change of 20% in currency exchange rates could be experienced in the near term. such an adverse change, after taking into account balance sheet hedges only and offsetting recorded monetary asset and liability positions, would have resulted in an adverse impact on income before taxes of less than $80 million as of december 29, 2012 (less than $40 million as of december 31, 2011). interest rates we generally hedge interest rate risks of fixed-rate debt instruments with interest rate swaps. gains and losses on these investments would generally be offset by corresponding losses and gains on the related hedging instruments, resulting in an insignificant net exposure to interest rate loss. we are exposed to interest rate risk related to our investment portfolio and indebtedness. our indebtedness includes our debt issuances and the liability associated with a long-term patent cross-license agreement with nvidia. the primary objective of our investments in debt instruments is to preserve principal while maximizing yields, which generally track the u.s.-dollar three-month libor. a hypothetical decrease in interest rates of 1.0% would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our indebtedness of approximately $1.5 billion as of december 29, 2012 (an increase of approximately $900 million as of december 31, 2011). the significant increase from december 31, 2011 was primarily driven by the inclusion of $6.2 billion of senior unsecured notes issued in the fourth quarter of 2012. a hypothetical decrease in benchmark interest rates of up to 1.0%, after taking into account investment hedges, would have resulted in an increase in the fair value of our investment portfolio of approximately $10 million as of december 29, 2012 (an increase of approximately $20 million as of december 31, 2011). the fluctuations in fair value of our investment portfolio and indebtedness reflect only the direct impact of the change in interest rates. other economic variables, such as equity market fluctuations and changes in relative credit risk, could result in a significantly higher decline in the fair value of our net investment position. for further information on how credit risk is factored into the valuation of our investment portfolio and debt issuances, see note 4: fair value in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. equity prices our investments include marketable equity securities and equity derivative instruments such as warrants and options. we typically do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our equity market exposure through hedging activities. however, for our investments in strategic equity derivative instruments, we may enter into transactions to reduce or eliminate the equity market risks. additionally, for our securities that we no longer consider strategic, we evaluate legal, market, and economic factors in our decision on the timing of disposal, and whether it is possible and appropriate to hedge the equity market risk. we hold derivative instruments that seek to offset changes in liabilities related to the equity market risks of certain deferred compensation arrangements. the gains and losses from changes in fair value of these derivatives are designed to offset the losses and gains on the related liabilities, resulting in an insignificant net exposure to loss. 41 table of contents as of december 29, 2012, the fair value of our marketable equity investments and our equity derivative instruments, including hedging positions, was $4.4 billion ($585 million as of december 31, 2011). our marketable equity investment in asml was carried at a total fair market value of $4.0 billion, or 90% of our marketable equity portfolio, as of december 29, 2012. our marketable equity method investments are excluded from our analysis, as the carrying value does not fluctuate based on market price changes unless an other-than-temporary impairment is deemed necessary. to determine reasonably possible decreases in the market value of our marketable equity investments, we have analyzed the expected market price sensitivity of our marketable equity investment portfolio. assuming a loss of 35% in market prices, and after reflecting the impact of hedges and offsetting positions, the aggregate value of our marketable equity investments could decrease by approximately $1.6 billion, based on the value as of december 29, 2012 (a decrease in value of approximately $265 million, based on the value as of december 31, 2011 using an assumed loss of 45%). many of the same factors that could result in an adverse movement of equity market prices affect our non-marketable equity investments, although we cannot always quantify the impact directly. financial markets are volatile, which could negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of our ability to realize value in our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. these types of investments involve a great deal of risk, and there can be no assurance that any specific company will grow or become successful; consequently, we could lose all or part of our investment. our non-marketable equity investments, excluding investments accounted for under the equity method, had a carrying amount of $1.2 billion as of december 29, 2012 ($1.1 billion as of december 31, 2011). as of december 29, 2012, the carrying amount of our non-marketable equity method investments was $1.0 billion ($1.6 billion as of december 31, 2011). the majority of the total non-marketable equity method investments balance as of december 29, 2012 was concentrated in our imft investment of $642 million ($1.3 billion in imft and im flash singapore, llp as of december 31, 2011). 42 table of contents