quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 23 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in commercial paper, money market funds and highly liquid debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the u.s. government and its agencies. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. we account for our investment instruments in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 115, or sfas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities . all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as "available-for-sale" under sfas no. 115. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if inte rest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because our debt securities are classified as "available-for-sale", no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity. these securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. as of january 25, 2004, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both 50 basis points would result in changes in fair market values for these investments of approximately $2.7 million. exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. currently, sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in u.s. dollars, and therefore are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. to date, we have not engaged in any currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. business risks in addition to the risks discussed in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations," our business is subject to the risks set forth below. 23 risks related to our operations failure to transition to new manufacturing process technologies could affect our ability to compete effectively. our strategy is to utilize the most advanced process technology appropriate for our products and available from commercial third-party foundries. use of advanced processes may have greater risk of initial yield problems and higher product cost. manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development. we continuously evaluate the benefits of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. we currently use 0.15-micron, 0.14 micron and 0.13 micron process technologies for our family of gpus, mcps and umps. the majority of our newest gpus, the geforce fx and the geforce fx go products are manufactured in 0.13-micron process technology. we believe that the transition of our products to increasingly smaller geometries will be important to our competitive position. on february 24, 2004, we announced that we will be one of the first semiconductor companies to manufacture select up-coming gpus at tsmc's 0.11 um (micron) process technology. we have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes in the past and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. moreover, we are dependent on our relationships with our third-party manufacturers to migrate to smaller geometry processes successfully. we may continue to have difficulty migrating to new manufacturing process technologies successfully or on a timely basis. our inability to transition to new manufacturing process technologies may adversely affect our operating results and harm our gross margins. failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for existing and/or new products would reduce our gross margins. semiconductor manufacturing yields are a function both of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the manufacturer. since low yields may result from either design or process technology failures, yield problems may not be effectively determined or resolved until an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested to identify process sensitivities relating to the design rules that are used. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process, and resolution of yield problems would require cooperation by and communication between us and the manufacturer. because of our potentially limited access to wafer fabrication capacity from our manufacturers, any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our per unit costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. this could potentially harm customer relationships, as well as revenue and gross profit. our wafer manufacturers may be unable to achieve or maintain acceptable manufacturing yields in the future. our inability to achieve planned yields from our wafer manufacturers could harm our business. we also face the risk of product recalls or product returns resulting from design or manufacturing defects that are not discovered during the manufacturing and testing process. in the event of a significant number of product returns due to a defect or rec all, our business could suffer. we are dependent on key personnel and the loss of these employees could harm our business. our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. marv burkett and david shannon are our only officers or employees bound by an employment agreement, and so our relationships with our other officers and employees are at will. we do not have "key person" life insurance policies on any of our employees. the loss of the services of any of our executive officers, technical personnel or other key employees, particularly jen-hsun huang, our president and chief executive officer, would harm our business. our success will depend on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. our failure to attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel would harm our business. our failure to estimate customer demand properly may result in excess or obsolete inventory that could adversely affect our gross margins. inventory purchases are based upon future demand forecasts. if there were to be a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products, or if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements, we could be required to write-down our inventory and our gross margins could be adversely affected. 24 our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors our stock price could decline . many of our revenue components fluctuate and are difficult to predict, and our operating expenses are largely independent of revenue in any particular period. it is therefore difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and profits or losses. as a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. we believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations. factors that have affected our results of operations in the past, and could affect our results of operations in the future, include the following: demand and market acceptance for our products and/or our customers products; the successful development and volume production of next-generation products; new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors; our ability to introduce new products in accordance with original equipment manufacturers , or oems , design requirements and design cycles; changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our customers products; fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields; declines in spending by corporations and consumers related to perceptions regarding an economic downturn in the u.s. and international economies; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues; the rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders; the loss of a key customer or the termination of a strategic relationship; seasonal fluctuations associated with the pc market; substantial disruption in our suppliers operations, either as a result of a natural disaster, equipment failure, terrorism or other cause; supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our customers products, including memory devices; our ability to reduce the manufacturing costs of our products; legal and other costs related to defending intellectual property and other types of lawsuits; customer receivable bad debt write-offs; costs associated with the repair and replacement of defective products; unexpected inventory write-downs; and introductions of enabling technologies to keep pace with faster generations of processors and controllers. any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income. accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. in addition, the results of any quarterly period are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. 25 our operating expenses are relatively fixed, and we order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. therefore, we have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. most of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, and we may be unable to adjust spending sufficiently in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall. substantially all of our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term agreements. as a result, we may commit resources to the production of products without having received advance purchase commitments from customers. any inability to sell products to which we have devoted significant resources could harm our business. in addition, cancellation or deferral of product orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our profit margins and restrict our ability to fund operations. we may build inventories during periods of anticipated growth and in co nnection with selling workstation boards directly to major oems. we could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding inventory write-downs if growth slows or if we incorrectly forecast product demand. a reduction in demand could negatively impact our gross margins and financial results. to stay competitive, we may have to invest more resources in research and development. if new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development or sales and marketing efforts, our business could suffer. we have substantially increased our engineering and technical resources and have 1,057 full-time employees engaged in research and development as of january 25, 2004, compared to 832 employees as of january 26, 2003. during fiscal years 2004, 2003 and 2002, research and development expenditures represented 15%, 12% and 11% as a percentage of revenue, respectively. risks related to our products pci express is central to our gpu as well as mcp strategies this year and the outcome of this strategy will impact our business. pci express is expected to enable a new level of performance for high bandwidth applications like graphics and networking. the transition to pci express, which is extremely complex, is central to our gpu and mcp strategies this year. we intend to lead this transition using a pci express high-speed interconnect, or hsi. hsi is a complex piece of networking technology that performs high-speed bi-directional interconnect protocol conversion. using hsi, we expect to transform some of our gpus into pci express compatible gpus. with our pci express compatible gpus, we expect that our partners will be able to launch pci express compatible solutions in april 2004. during fiscal 2005, we expect to launch and be in full production with a top-to-bottom product line of next generation pci express gpus based on our brand new nv4x architecture. if we fail to deliver pci express in a timely manner or if our pci express compatible products do not meet consumer and/or analysts expectations, our business could suffer. we need to develop new products and to manage product transitions in order to succeed. our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to successfully develop new products for our target segments. our add-in board and motherboard manufacturers, original design manufacturers, or odms, and major oem customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles. accordingly, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products with such performance characteristics in order to be included in new system configurations. this requires that we do the following: anticipate the features and functionality that consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of oems, odms, cems and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers; price our products competitively; and introduce the products to the market within the limited window for oems, odms, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. 26 as a result, we believe that significant expenditures for research and development will continue to be required in the future. the success of new product introductions will depend on several factors, including the following: proper new product definition; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; the ability of international business machines, or ibm, taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company, or tsmc, united microelectronics corporation, or umc, and any additional third-party manufacturers to effectively manufacture our new products in a timely manner; the quality of any new products; differentiation of new products from those of our competitors; market acceptance of our products and our customers' products; and availability of adequate quantity and configurations of various types of memory products. a critical component of our product development effort is our partnerships with leaders in the computer aided design, or cad, industry. we have invested significant resources to develop relationships with industry leaders, including cadence design systems, inc., ikos systems, inc. and synopsys, inc., often assisting these companies in the product definition of their new products. we believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3d graphics market and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. we believe this approach assists us in meeting the new design schedules of pc manufacturers. if these relationships are not successful, we may not be able to develop new products in a timely manner. in addition, our strategy includes utilizing the most advanced semiconductor process technology appropriate for our products and available from commercial third-party foundries. use of advanced processes has in the past resulted in initial yield problems. new products that we introduce may not incorporate the features and functionality demanded by oems, odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers and consumers of personal computers and consumer electronics. in addition, we may not successfully develop or introduce new products in sufficient volumes within the appropriate time to meet both the oems design cycles and market demand. we have in the past experienced delays in the development of some new products. our failure to successfully develop, introduce or achieve market acceptance for new digital media processors would harm our business. in particular, we experienced delays in the introduction of digital media processors using our next generation technology during the first half of fiscal 2004 and any such delays in the future or failure of these or other processors to meet or exceed specifications of competitive products could materially harm our business. our failure to identify new product opportunities or develop new products could harm our business. as our digital media processors develop and competition increases, we anticipate that product life cycles at the high end will remain short and average selling prices will continue to decline. in particular, we expect average selling prices and gross margins for our digital media processors to decline as each product matures and as unit volume increases. as a result, we will need to introduce new products and enhancements to existing products to maintain overall average selling prices and gross margins. in order for our digital media processors to achieve high volumes, leading pc oems, odms, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers must select our digital media processor for design into their products, and then successfully complete the designs of their products and sell them. we may be unable to successfully identify new product opportunities or to develop and bring to market in a timely fashion new products. in addition, we cannot guarantee that new products we develop will be selected for design into pc oems , odms , and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers products, that any new designs will be successfully completed or that any new products will be sold. as the complexity of our products and the manufacturing process for products increases, there is an increasing risk that we will experience problems with the performance of products and that there will be delays in the development, introduction or volume shipment of our products. we may experience difficulties related to the production of current or future products or other factors may delay the introduction or volume sale of new products we developed. in addition, we may be unable to successfully manage the production transition risks with respect to future products. failure to achieve any of the foregoing with r espect to future products or product enhancements could result in rapidly declining average selling prices, reduced margins and reduced demand for products or loss of market share. in addition, technologies developed by others may render our digital media processors non-competitive or obsolete or result in our holding excess inventory, any of which would harm our business. 27 we could suffer a loss of market share if our products contain significant defects. products as complex as those offered by us may contain defects or failures when introduced or when new versions or enhancements to existing products are released. we have in the past discovered defects and incompatibilities with customers hardware in certain of our products and may experience delays or loss of revenue to correct any new defects in the future. errors in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments could result in loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. our products typically go through only one verification cycle prior to beginning volume production and distribution. as a result, our products may contain defects or flaws that are undetected prior to volume production and distribution. if these defects or flaws exist and are not detected prior to volume production and distribution, we may be required to reimburse customers for costs to repair or replace the affected products in the field. these costs could be significant and could adversely affect our business and operating results. risks related to our partners we sell our products to a small number of customers and our business could suffer by the loss of these customers. we have only a limited number of customers and our sales are highly concentrated. our sales process involves achieving key design wins with leading pc oems and major system builders and supporting the product design into high volume production with key cems, odms, motherboard and add-in board manufacturers. these design wins in turn influence the retail and system builder channel that is serviced by cems, odms, motherboard and add-in board manufacturers. our distribution strategy is to work with a small number of leading independent cems, odms, motherboard manufacturers, add-in board manufacturers and stocking representatives, each of which has relationships with a broad range of system builders and leading pc oems. currently, we sell a significant majority of our digital media processors dire ctly to stocking representatives, cems, odms, motherboard and add-in board manufacturers, which then sell boards with our graphics processor to leading pc oems, retail outlets and to a large number of system builders. as a result, our business could be harmed by the loss of business from pc oems, cems, odms, motherboard and add-in board manufacturers. in addition, revenue from pc oems, cems, odms, motherboard and add-in board manufacturers that have directly or indirectly accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, may not continue, or may not reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could result in significant charges against income, which could harm our business. our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers' businesses and to downturns in the economy and the industry. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. this allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. as of the of fiscal 2004, fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2002 our allowance for doubtful accounts represented 0.1%, 0.2% and 0.2% of revenue for each fiscal year, respectively. if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required which could adversely affect our opera ting results. we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs in the future, which could harm our business. we depend on foundries and independent contractors to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our business. we do not manufacture the semiconductor wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. our products require wafers manufactured with state-of-the-art fabrication equipment and techniques. we utilize tsmc, ibm and umc to produce our semiconductor wafers and utilize independent subcontractors to perform assembly, testing and packaging. our wafer requirements represent a significant portion of the total production capacity at tsmc. we depend on these suppliers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields, and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis. these manufacturers may be unable to meet our near-term or long-term manufact uring requirements. we obtain manufacturing services on a purchase order basis. tsmc has no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantities of product. tsmc, ibm and umc fabricate wafers for other companies, including certain of our competitors, and could choose to prioritize capacity for other users or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice. because the lead-time needed to establish a strategic relationship with a new manufacturing partner could be several quarters, there is no readily available alternative source of supply for any specific product. we believe that long-term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with tsmc, ibm, umc and any other manufacturers used by us to ensure adequate product supply to respond to customer demand. any difficulties like these would harm our business. 28 there can be no assurance that ibm will be able to produce wafers of acceptable quality and with acceptable manufacturing yield and deliver those wafers to us and our independent assembly and testing subcontractors on a timely basis. . on march 26, 2003, we announced that we have formed a multi-year strategic alliance under which ibm will manufacture our next-generation geforce gpus. as part of the agreement, we will gain access to ibm suite of foundry services and manufacturing technologies, including power-efficient copper wiring, and a roadmap that is designed to lead to 65nm (nanometer; a billionth of a meter) in the next several years, giving us valuable tools to advance our gpus. ibm began manufacturing the next-generation geforce graphics processor in july 2003 at ibm plant in east fishkill, new york. during the development of our relationship with ibm, our manufacturing yields and product performance could suffer due to difficulties associated with adapting our technology and product design to the proprietary process technology and design rules of ibm. any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our per unit costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. this could potentially harm customer relationships as well as revenue and gross profit. we also face the risk of product recalls or product returns resulting from design or manufacturing defects that are not discovered during the manufacturing and testing process. in the event of a significant number of product returns due to a defect or recall, our business could suffer. we are dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our products. our digital media processors are assembled and tested by siliconware precision industries company ltd., amkor technology, chippac incorporated and advanced semiconductor engineering. we do not have long-term agreements with any of these subcontractors. as a result of our dependence on third-party subcontractors for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, we do not directly control product delivery schedules or product quality. any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture, assembly or testing of our products and could harm our business. due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in the shipment of our products if we are required to find alternative third parties to assemble or test our products or components. any delays in delivery of our products could harm our business. we rely on third-party vendors to supply us tools for the development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools necessary to develop these products . in the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party software development tools. while we currently are not dependent on any one vendor for the supply of these tools, some or all of these tools may not be readily available in the future. for example, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products in the past as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from digital media processors in the future may exceed the capabilities of the software development tools available to us. if the software development tools we use become unavailable or f ail to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could suffer. microsoft announced that it had entered into an agreement with one of our competitors to develop technology for future xbox products and services. the impact that this announcement may have on our future revenue from the sale of xbox processors to microsoft is uncertain. on august 14, 2003, microsoft announced that it had entered into an agreement with one of our competitors to develop technology for future xbox products and services. the impact that this announcement may have on our future revenue from the sale of xbox processors to microsoft is uncertain, but we do not anticipate that it will have a significant impact upon us for at least 18 24 months. revenue from the sale of xbox processors to microsoft during fiscal 2002, fiscal 2003 and fiscal 2004 accounted for 9%, 23% and 15%, respectively, of our total revenue. 29 we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions and that could hurt our ability to grow our business and sell our products. in the past we have acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and technologies that we believed would help expand or enhance our products and services or help expand our distribution channels. for any previous or future acquisition or investment, the following risks could impair our ability to grow our business and develop new products and, ultimately, could impair our ability to sell our products: difficulty in combining the technology, operations or workforce of the acquired business; disruption of our ongoing businesses; difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and possible impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new businesses and management personnel. in addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and common stock. if the consideration is paid with our common stock, existing stockholders would be further diluted. provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of the board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior stockholder approval; the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; a classified board of directors; and advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. in the event that an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft has first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the provision could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. risks related to our competition the 3d graphics, platform processor and handheld industries are highly competitive and we may be unable to compete. the market for gpus, mcps and umps for pcs and handhelds in which we compete is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. we believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, backward-forward software support, conformity to industry standard apis, manufacturing capabilities, price of digital media processors and total system costs of add-in boards and motherboards. we expect competition to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products, which c ould harm our business. 30 our primary source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide gpu and mcp solutions for the pc and handheld segments. our competitors include the following: suppliers of mcps that incorporate 3d graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ati, intel, silicon integrated systems and via; suppliers of desktop standalone gpus that incorporate 3d graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ati, creative technology, matrox electronics systems ltd. and xgi technology, inc.,; suppliers of notebook standalone gpus that incorporate 3d graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ati, silicon motion. and the joint venture of a division of sonicblue incorporated (formerly s3 incorporated) and via; and suppliers of umps for handheld devices that incorporate advanced graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ati and seiko-epson. if and to the extent we offer products outside of the personal computer, consumer electronics and handheld segments, we may face competition from some of our existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. we cannot accurately predict if we will compete successfully in any new markets we may enter. our failure to achieve one or more design wins would harm our business. our future success will depend in large part on achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen for hardware components or subassemblies designed by pc oems, odms, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. our add-in board and motherboard manufacturers and major oem and odm customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, generally based on spring and fall design cycles. accordingly, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products with such performance characteristics in order to be included in new system configurations. our failure to achieve one or more design wins would harm our business. the process of being qualified for inclusion in an oem product ca n be lengthy and could cause us to miss a cycle in the demand of end users for a particular product feature, which also could harm our business. our ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers, including intel and microsoft. this would require us to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards for a significant period of time, our ability to achieve design wins could suffer. risks related to market conditions we are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. our reliance on foreign third-party manufacturing, assembly, testing and packaging operations subjects us to a number of risks associated with conducting business outside of the united states, including the following: unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; longer payment cycles; imposition of additional taxes and penalties; the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and other factors beyond our control, including terrorism and war, which may delay the shipment of our products. 31 we also are subject to general political risks in connection with our international trade relationships. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. currently, all of our arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in u.s. dollars, and to date we have not engaged in any currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. our business is cyclical in nature and an industry downturn could harm our business. our business is directly affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, including alternating periods of overcapacity and capacity constraints, variations in manufacturing costs and yields, significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development and rapid technological change. if we are unable to respond to changes in our industry, which can be unpredictable and rapid, in an efficient and timely manner, our operating results could suffer. in particular, from time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant and sometimes prolonged downturns characterized by diminished product demand and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. if we cannot take appropriate actions such as reducing our costs to sufficiently offset declines in demand, our revenues and earnings will suffer during downturns. our products may not continue to be accepted by the pc and consumer electronics segments. our success will depend in part upon continued broad adoption of our digital media processors for 3d graphics in pc and consumer electronics applications. the market for digital media processors has been characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in dynamic random memory devices pricing and other changes in the total system cost of add-in boards, as well as by severe price competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. only a small number of products have achieved broad market acceptance and such market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition. since the pc segment is our core business, our business would suff er if for any reason our current or future digital media processors do not continue to achieve widespread acceptance in the pc segment. if we are unable to complete the timely development of products or if we were unable to successfully and cost-effectively manufacture and deliver products that meet the requirements of the pc segment, our business would be harmed. we are dependent on the pc market and the rate of its growth has and may in the future have a negative impact on our business. during fiscal 2004, we derived the majority of our revenue from the sale of products for use in the desktop and notebook pc segments, including professional workstations . we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from the sale or license of products for use in the desktop and notebook pc segments in the next several years. a reduction in sales of pcs, or a reduction in the growth rate of pc sales, will reduce demand for our products. moreover, changes in demand could be large and sudden. since pc manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they have incorrectly forecast product transitions. in these cases, pc manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inve ntory from suppliers like us until the excess inventory has been absorbed. 32 hostilities involving the united states and/or terrorist attacks could harm our business. the financial, political, economic and other uncertainties following the terrorist attacks upon the united states led to a weakening of the global economy. subsequent terrorist acts and/or the threat of future outbreak or continued escalation of hostilities involving the united states or other countries could adversely affect the growth rate of our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers, distributors and suppliers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. political instability in taiwan and in the people republic of china could harm our business. because of our reliance on tsmc and umc, our business may be harmed by political instability in taiwan, including the worsening of the strained relations between the people republic of china and taiwan, or if relations between the u.s. and the people republic of china are strained due to foreign relations events. furthermore, any substantial disruption in our suppliers operations, either as a result of a natural disaster, political unrest, economic instability, acts of terrorism or war, equipment failure or other cause, could harm our business. our stock price may continue to experience significant short-term fluctuations. the price of our common stock has fluctuated greatly. these price fluctuations have been rapid and severe. the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly in the future due to factors that are non-company specific, such as the decline in the u.s. economy, acts of terror against the u.s., war or due to a variety of company specific factors, including quarter to quarter variations in our operating results, shortfalls in revenue or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and the other factors discussed above in these risk factors. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company stock, securities class action litigation had been initiated against the issuing company. we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates. we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in commercial paper, money market funds and highly liquid debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the u.s. government and its agencies. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. we account for our investment instruments in accordance with sfas no. 115. all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as "available-for-sale" under sfas no. 115. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because our debt securities are classified as " available-for-sale", no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity. risks related to intellectual property, litigation and government action our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions that could result in substantial costs to us. the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. the digital media processor industry in particular has been characterized recently by the aggressive pursuit of intellectual property positions, and we expect our competitors to continue to pursue aggressive intellectual property positions. in addition, from time to time we receive notices or are included in legal actions alleging that we have infringed patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. we expect that, as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases, and as competition in our product lines intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims may increase. if infringement claims are made against us, we may seek licenses under the claimants patents or other intellectual property rights. however, licenses may not be offered at all or on terms acceptable to us, particularly by competitors. the failure to obtain a license from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of and sale of one or more products, which could reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. we have agreed to indemnify certain customers for certain claims of infringement arising out of sale of our products. 33 our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. we have numerous patents issued and pending in the united states and in foreign countries. our patents and pending patent applications relate to technology used by us in connection with our products, including our digital media processors. we also rely on international treaties and organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as: the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors operations in particular countries and regions; the location in which our products are manufactured; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. in addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. the enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. we have licensed technology from third parties for incorporation in our digital media processors, and expect to continue to enter into license agreements for future products. these licenses may result in royalty payments to third parties, the cross licensing of technology by us or pa yment of other consideration. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could suffer. litigation against us or our customers concerning infringement would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. we are currently subject to claims of patent infringement, and we may be subject to patent infringement claims or suits brought by other parties in the future. these claims and any future lawsuits could divert our resources and result in the payment of substantial damages. future actions by the irs or sec or other governmental or regulatory agencies could harm our business. as of january 25, 2004, the internal revenue service, or irs, closed our federal income tax return exam for our fiscal years ended january 28, 2001 and january 27, 2002. the results of our exam were submitted to the joint committee on taxation, or the joint committee, for review. with our exam closed, we recorded the tax benefit of the settlement in our financial statements for the fiscal year ended january 25, 2004 because we had certainty as to the outcome of certain tax contingencies for which we had established liabilities. however, the failure of the joint committee to agree with our settlement may result in a material adverse impact on the results of our operations in the period in which the matter is either resolved or in which an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. please refer to part ii, item 7 "results of operations - income taxes" and note 14 of our notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. we are subject to changes in financial accounting standards, which may affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct business. the financial accounting standards board and various federal legislative proposals have proposed changes to accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, or u.s. gaap, that may require us to recognize compensation expense for our employee stock options. we currently us the intrinsic value method to measure compensation expense for stock-based awards to our employees. under this method, we generally do no recognize compensation expense for an employee stock option when the exercise price of the stock option is equal to the fair market value on the date of grant. if any change to u.s. gaap is adopted that requires us to recognize compensation expense for our employee stock options, our reported results of operations may be adversely affected. 34- risk factors. these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. except as required by law, we expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in our expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based. all references to nvidia, we, us, our or the company mean nvidia corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company. nvidia, geforce, sli, hybrid sli, goforce, nvidia quadro, quadro, nvidia quadro plex, nvidia nforce, purevideo, cuda, tesla, nvidia apx, physx, ageia, mental images, mental ray, and the nvidia logo are our trademarks and/or registered trademarks in the united states and other countries that are used in this document. we may also refer to trademarks of other corporations and organizations in this document. our company nvidia corporation is the worldwide leader in visual computing technologies and the inventor of the graphic processing unit, or the gpu. our products are designed to generate realistic, interactive graphics on consumer and professional computing devices. we serve the entertainment and consumer market with our geforce products, the professional design and visualization market with our quadro products, and the high-performance computing market with our tesla products. we have four major product-line operating segments: the gpu b usiness, the professional solutions business, or psb , the media and communications processor, or mcp, b usiness, and the consumer products business, or cpb . our gpu business is comprised primarily of our geforce products that support desktop and notebook personal computers, or pcs, plus memory products. our psb is comprised of our nvidia quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our nvidia tesla high-performance computing products. our mcp business is comprised of nvidia nforce core logic and motherboard gpu, or mgpu products. our cpb is comprised of our goforce and apx mobile brands and products that support handheld personal media players, or pmps, personal digital assistants, or pdas, cellular phones and other handheld devices. cpb also includes license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices. original equipment manufacturers, or oems, original design manufacturers, or odms, add-in-card manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies worldwide utilize nvidia processors as a core component of their entertainment , business and professional solutions. we were incorporated in california in april 1993 and reincorporated in delaware in april 1998. our headquarter facilities are in santa clara , california . our internet address is www.nvidia.com . the contents of our website are not a part of this form 10-k. 4 our business gpu business our gpu business is comprised primarily of our geforce products that support desktop and notebook pcs, plus memory products. our gpu business is focused on microsoft windows and apple pc platforms. geforce gpus power pcs made by or distributed by virtually every pc oem worldwide in desktop pcs, notebook pcs, pcs loaded with windows media center and media extenders such as the apple tv. gpus enhance the user experience for playing video games, editing photos, viewing and editing videos and high-definition, or hd, movies. gpus also enable the rich visual user interfaces of the windows vista and apple os x operating systems. the combination of the programmable unified shader gpu with microsoft corporation's, or microsoft's, directx 10 high-level shading language is known as directx 10 gpus. combined with the ability to directly access the gpu via the new windows vista applications from microsoft office to web 2.0, applications can now incorporate improved quality through 3d effects. we believe we are in an era where visual computing is becoming increasingly important to consumers and other end users of our products. our strategy is to promote our geforce brand as one of the most important processors through technology leadership, increasing programmability, and great content experience. in fiscal year 2008, our strategy was to extend our architectural and technology advantage with our second-generation directx 10 gpus, the geforce 8-series gpus. during fiscal year 2008, we added the nvidia geforce 8800 ultra, geforce 8800 gt, geforce 8600, geforce 8500, and geforce 8300 to our geforce 8-series of gpus, which previously included the geforce 8800 gtx and 8800 gts products. our standalone desktop gpu category share grew from 52% to 64% in fiscal year 2008, according to the mercury research 2006 and 2007 fourth quarter pc graphics reports, respectively. during fiscal year 2008, we launched a new family of geforce 8m series notebook gpus. the geforcem and nvidia quadro fx mobile families represent our notebook gpus and include the geforce 8m, geforce 7 go, and nvidia quadro fx m gpus. these gpus are designed to deliver desktop graphics performance and features for multiple notebook configurations such as desktop replacement notebooks, multimedia notebooks, thin-and-light notebooks and notebook workstations. the geforce m and geforce go products are designed to serve the needs of both enterprise and consumer users. the nvidia quadro fx m products are designed to serve the needs of workstation professionals in the area of product design and digital content creation. we experienced a high degree of design-win success for the intel santa rosa platform cycle during fiscal year 2008, which helped our standalone notebook category share grow from 58% to 75%, according to the mercury research 2006 and 2007 fourth quarter pc graphics reports, respectively. professional solutions business our psb is comprised of our nvidia quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our nvidia tesla high-performance computing products. our nvidia quadro brand products are designed to deliver the highest possible level of performance and compatibility for the professional industry. the nvidia quadro family consists of the nvidia quadro plex visual computing system, or vcs, nvidia quadro fx, and the nvidia quadro night vision systems, or nvs, professional workstation processors. nvidia quadro products are recognized by many as the standard for professional graphics solutions needed to solve many of the world's complex visual computing challenges in the manufacturing, entertainment, medical, science, and aerospace industries. nvidia quadro products are fully certified by several software developers for professional workstation applications and are designed to deliver the graphics performance and precision required by professional applications. we believe that recent years have experienced an increasing level of global adoption for the computer-aided design approach of product creation. nvidia has the leading position in the professional graphics category with over 70% share by revenue according to the 2007 fourth quarter international data corporation, or idc, market research report. we achieved this market position by providing innovative gpu technology, software, and tools that integrate the capabilities of our gpu with a broad array of visualization products. during fiscal year 2008, we launched seven new quadro solutions, including the quadro fx 370 and 570. we also introduced a new line of notebook workstation gpus - the nvidia quadro fx 1600m, 570m and 360m as well as a new line of desktop workstation gpus the nvidia quadro fx 4600 and 5600 all based on our geforce 8-series unified shader architecture. we expanded our nvidia quadro plex family with the introduction of the nvidia quadro plex vcs iv, a new version of the nvidia quadro plex visual computing system, or vcs, which provides enhanced performance for a wide range of high-performance, graphics-intensive styling and design, oil and gas, and scientific applications. 5 in fiscal year 2008, we also introduced nvidia tesla, our entry into the high-performance computing industry. tesla is a new family of gpu computing products that delivers processing capabilities for high-performance computing applications. the tesla family consists of the c870 gpu computing processor, the d870 deskside supercomputer and the s870 1u computing server. during the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, we began shipments of our tesla c870 gpu computing processor and d870 desk-side supercomputer products. compute unified device architecture, or cuda, software has been acknowledged for its ability to transform a gpu into a supercomputer and to deliver the level of performance normally found in large and expensive clusters residing in datacenters to the desktop of scientists and engineers around the world. during fiscal year 2008, nvida made available the first public version of the nvidia cuda software developer kit and c-compiler for computing on nvidia gpus. in fiscal year 2008, we completed our acquisition of mental images, an industry leader in photorealistic rendering technology. mental images' mental ray product is considered by many to be the most pervasive ray tracing renderer in the industry. mental images visualization technology is embedded in most major digital content creation, or dcc, and computer aided design, or cad, applications, and their rendering technology is deployed by major manufacturers and film studios. we believe that this strategic combination will enable the development of tools and technologies that will advance the state of visualization, will be optimized for next generation computing architectures, and will create new product categories for both hardware and software. mcp business our mcp business is comprised of nvidia nforce core logic and nvidia geforce mgpu products. our nvidia nforce and geforce mgpu families of products address the multi-billion dollar computer core logic market. core logic is the computer's central nervous system, controlling and directing high speed data between the central processing unit, or cpu, the gpu, storage, and networks. high quality, long-term reliability, and top performance are key customer demands of core logic suppliers. our strategy for mcps aligns with what we anticipate will drive growth in the mcp segment such as multi-core, ever-increasing-speed networking and storage technologies, and integration of complex features such as virtualization, security processing and network processing. during the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, we shipped our first single-chip mgpus for intel-processor-based desktop pcs. we believe that the geforce 7000 mgpu family delivers the performance of an entry-level discrete gpu when compared against traditional integrated graphics solutions. we also shipped the geforce 7050 mgpu, which targets the lower cost categories of the market. we are now the only chipset supplier to support processor platforms created by both intel corporation, or intel, and advanced micro devices inc., or amd, and the only branded integrated gpu supplier for the intel processor platform. we believe that the integrated graphics opportunity represents approximately 60% of the world pc market. we also extended the reach of scalable link interface, or sli, technology into the performance category with the launch of our nvidia nforce 650i sli, 680i lt sli and 680i ultra mcp products for intel. we are now the second largest core logic supplier in the world with 15% segment share of the total core logic market, according to the mercury research 2007 fourth quarter pc chipsets and processors report. in fiscal year 2008, we announced a new technology named hybrid sli. we named it hybrid because this technology combines a powerful as well as an energy-efficient engine and sli because it is our multi-gpu technology. when geforce add-in graphics cards are connected to geforce mgpus, hybrid sli kicks in, combining their processing power to deliver an improved experience. the technology is application aware so, depending on the processing demands of each application running on the host pc, the discrete gpu may be completely shut-down in order to save power. for example, a pc containing the combined power of dual geforce 8800 gtx sli add-in graphics cards can reach 400 watts. if such a pc contained hybrid sli technology, both gpus could be powered down when the user is doing email, surfing the web, or watching a blu-ray movie, keeping the system quiet and consuming lower levels of energy. but when a video game or any other demanding gpu application is launched, the dual geforce 8800 gtx's would be powered up to deliver the performance required to power the related application. hybrid sli was made available starting with our geforce8-series mgpus. our mcp strategy is to bring the benefits of geforce gpus to the most price sensitive categories while creating exciting platform architectures like sli, hybrid sli, and enthusiast system architecture, or esa. esa is a standard for system information protocol that links a pc system's various critical components such as fan, power supply, smart chassis, gpus, and motherboards. it enables a unified architecture for applications and users to control and optimize the performance of their system. sli, hybrid sli, and esa are examples of how nvidia creates architectures that advance the capabilities of the pc. 6 consumer products business our cpb is comprised of our goforce and apx mobile brands and products that support pmps, pdas, cellular phones and other handheld devices. this business also includes license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices. we believe that mobile devices like phones, music players, and portable navigation devices will increasingly become multi-function, multi-tasking, pcs. as such, we anticipate the architecture of these devices will increasingly become more consumer pc-like and be capable of delivering all the entertainment and web experiences that end users currently enjoy on a pc, but in a form-factor that fits nicely in their hands. our mobile strategy is to create an application processor and a computer-on-a-chip that enables this experience. nvidia goforce mobile products and application processors implement design techniques, both inside the chips and at the system level, which result in high performance and long battery life. these technologies enhance visual display capabilities, improve connectivity, and minimize chip and system-level power consumption. nvidia goforce products can be found primarily in multimedia cellular phones and other handheld devices. in february 2008, we launched the nvidia apx 2500, our first such application processor. the apx 2500 is a computer-on-a-chip designed to meet the growing multimedia demands of today's mobile phone user. the apx 2500 is the culmination of several hundred man years of research and development. we believe that the mobile application processor is an area where we can add a significant amount of value and we also believe that it represents growth opportunity that could ultimately reach the level of several hundred million units a year. during the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, we shipped the goforce 6100, which was the first product resulting from our acquisition of portalplayer, inc., or portalplayer, in fiscal year 2007. the goforce 6100 can be found in primarily in pmps. our strategy we design our products to enable our pc oems, odms, system builders, motherboard and add-in board manufacturers, and cellular phone and consumer electronics oems, to build products that deliver state-of-the-art features, performance, compatibility and power efficiency while maintaining competitive pricing and profitability. we believe that by developing 3d graphics, hd, video and media communications solutions that provide superior performance and address the key requirements of each of the product categories we serve, we will accelerate the adoption of hd digital media platforms and devices throughout these segments. we combine scalable architectural technology with mass market economies-of-scale to deliver a complete family of products that span from professional workstations, to consumer pcs, to multimedia-rich cellular phones. our objective is to be the leading supplier of performance gpus, mcps and application processors that support pdas, pmps, cellular phones and other handheld devices. our current focus is on the desktop pc, professional workstation, notebook pc, high-performance computing, application processor, server, multimedia-rich cellular phone and video game console product lines, and we plan to expand into other product lines. our strategy to achieve this objective includes the following key elements: build award-winning, architecturally-compatible 3d graphics, hd video, media communications and ultra-low power product families for the pc, handheld and digital entertainment platforms . our strategy is to achieve market segment leadership in these platforms by providing award-winning performance at every price point. by developing 3d graphics, hd video and media communications solutions that provide superior performance and address the key requirements of these platforms, we believe that we will accelerate the adoption of 3d graphics and rich digital media. target leading oems, odms and system builders . our strategy is to enable our leading pc, handheld and consumer electronics oems, odms and major system builder customers to differentiate their products in a highly competitive marketplace by using our products. we believe that design wins with these industry leaders provide market validation of our products, increase brand awareness and enhance our ability to penetrate additional leading customer accounts. in addition, we believe that close relationships with oems, odms and major system builders will allow us to better anticipate and address customer needs with future generations of our products. sustain technology and product leadership in 3d graphics and hd video, and media communications and ultra-low power . we are focused on using our advanced engineering capabilities to accelerate the quality and performance of 3d graphics, hd video, media communications and ultra-low power processing in pcs and handheld devices. a fundamental aspect of our strategy is to actively recruit the best 3d graphics and hd video, networking and communications engineers in the industry, and we believe that we have assembled an exceptionally experienced and talented engineering team. our research and development strategy is to focus on concurrently developing multiple generations of gpus, including gpus for high-performance computing, mcps and mobile and consumer products that support pmps, pdas, cellular phones and other handheld devices using independent design teams. as we have in the past, we intend to use this strategy to achieve new levels of graphics, networking and communications features and performance and ultra-low power designs, enabling our customers to achieve superior performance in their products. increase market share . we believe that substantial market share will be important to achieving success. we intend to achieve a leading share of the market in areas in which we don't have a leading market share, and maintain a leading share of the market in areas in which we do have the lead, by devoting substantial resources to building families of products for a wide range of applications that offer significant improvement in performance over existing products. 7 use our expertise in digital multimedia . we believe the synergy created by the combination of 3d graphics, hd video and the internet will fundamentally change the way people work, learn, communicate and play. we believe that our expertise in hd graphics and system architecture positions us to help drive this transformation. we are using our expertise in the processing and transmission of high-bandwidth digital media to develop products designed to address the requirements of high-bandwidth concurrent multimedia. use our intellectual property and resources to enter into license and development contracts. from time to time, we expect to enter into license arrangements that will require significant customization of our intellectual property components. for license arrangements that require significant customization of our intellectual property components, we generally recognize this license revenue using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting over the period that services are performed. for example, in fiscal year 2006, we entered into an agreement with sony computer entertainment, inc., or sce, to jointly develop a custom gpu for sce's playstation3. our collaboration with sce includes license fees and royalties for the playstation3 and all derivatives, including next-generation digital consumer electronics devices. in addition, we are licensing software development tools for creating shaders and advanced graphics capabilities to sce. sales and marketing our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is a key part of our objective to become the leading supplier of performance gpus, mcps, and applications processors that support pmps, pdas, cellular phones and other handheld devices. our sales and marketing teams work closely with each industry's respective oems, odms, system builders, motherboard manufacturers, add-in board manufacturers and industry trendsetters, collectively referred to as our channel, to define product features, performance, price and timing of new products. members of our sales team have a high level of technical expertise and product and industry knowledge to support the competitive and complex design win process. we also employ a highly skilled team of application engineers to assist the channel in designing, testing and qualifying system designs that incorporate our products. we believe that the depth and quality of our design support are keys to improving the channel's time-to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction within the channel and fostering relationships that encourage customers to use the next generation of our products. in the gpu and mcp segments we serve, the sales process involves achieving key design wins with leading oems and major system builders and supporting the product design into high volume production with key odms, motherboard manufacturers and add-in board manufacturers. these design wins in turn influence the retail and system builder channel that is serviced by add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. our distribution strategy is to work with a number of leading independent contract equipment manufacturers, or cems, odms, motherboard manufacturers, add-in board manufacturers and distributors each of which have relationships with a broad range of major oems and/or strong brand name recognition in the retail channel. in the cpb segment we serve, the sales process primarily involves achieving key design wins directly with the leading handheld oems and supporting the product design into high-volume production. currently, we sell a significant portion of our processors directly to distributors, cems, odms, motherboard manufacturers and add-in board manufacturers, which then sell boards and systems with our products to leading oems, retail outlets and to a large number of system builders. although a small number of our customers represent the majority of our revenue, their end customers include a large number of oems and system builders throughout the world. as a result of our channel strategy, our sales are focused on a small number of customers. sales to our largest customer, asustek computer, inc. accounted for 10% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2008. to encourage software title developers and publishers to develop games optimized for platforms utilizing our products, we seek to establish and maintain strong relationships in the software development community. engineering and marketing personnel interact with and visit key software developers to promote and discuss our products, as well as to ascertain product requirements and solve technical problems. our developer program makes certain of our products available to developers prior to volume availability in order to encourage the development of software titles that are optimized for our products. backlog our sales are primarily made pursuant to standard purchase orders. the quantity of products purchased by our customers as well as our shipment schedules are subject to revisions that reflect changes in both the customers' requirements and in manufacturing availability. the semiconductor industry is characterized by short lead time orders and quick delivery schedules. in light of industry practice and experience, we believe that only a small portion of our backlog is non-cancelable and that the dollar amount associated with the non-cancelable portion is not significant. we do not believe that a backlog as of any particular date is indicative of future results. 8 seasonality our industry is largely focused on the consumer products market. due to the seasonality in this market, we typically expect to see stronger revenue performance in the second half of the calendar year related to the back-to-school and holiday seasons. manufacturing we do not directly manufacture semiconductor wafers used for our products. instead, we utilize what is known as a fabless manufacturing strategy for all of our product-line operating segments whereby we employ world-class suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging. this strategy uses the expertise of industry-leading suppliers that are certified by the international organization for standardization, or iso, in such areas as fabrication, assembly, quality control and assurance, reliability and testing. in addition, this strategy allows us to avoid many of the significant costs and risks associated with owning and operating manufacturing operations. our suppliers are also responsible for procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our products. as a result, we can focus our resources on product design, additional quality assurance, marketing and customer support. we utilize industry-leading suppliers, such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing corporation, or tsmc, united microelectronics corporation, or umc, chartered semiconductor manufacturing, or chartered, semiconductor manufacturing international corporation, or smic, and austria micro systems, or ams to produce our semiconductor wafers. we then utilize independent subcontractors, such as advanced semiconductor engineering, or ase, amkor technology, or amkor, jsi logistics ltd., or jsi, king yuan electronics co., ltd, or kyec, siliconware precision industries company ltd., or spil, and stats chippac incorporated, or chippac, to perform assembly, testing and packaging of most of our products. we typically receive semiconductor products from our subcontractors, perform incoming quality assurance and then ship the semiconductors to cems, distributors, motherboard and add-in board manufacturer customers from our third-party warehouse in hong kong. generally, these manufacturers assemble and test the boards based on our design kit and test specifications, and then ship the products to retailers, system builders or oems as motherboard and add-in board solutions. inventory and working capital our management focuses considerable attention on managing our inventories and other working-capital-related items. we manage inventories by communicating with our customers and then using our industry experience to forecast demand on a product-by-product basis. we then place manufacturing orders for our products that are based on forecasted demand. the quantity of products actually purchased by our customers as well as shipment schedules are subject to revisions that reflect changes in both the customers' requirements and in manufacturing availability. we generally maintain substantial inventories of our products because the semiconductor industry is characterized by short lead time orders and quick delivery schedules. research and development we believe that the continued introduction of new and enhanced products designed to deliver leading 3d graphics, hd video, audio, ultra-low power communications, storage, and secure networking performance and features is essential to our future success. our research and development strategy is to focus on concurrently developing multiple generations of gpus, mcps and our consumer products that support pmps, pdas, cellular phones or other handheld devices using independent design teams. our research and development efforts are performed within specialized groups consisting of software engineering, hardware engineering, very large scale integration design engineering, process engineering, architecture and algorithms. these groups act as a pipeline designed to allow the efficient simultaneous development of multiple generations of products. a critical component of our product development effort is our partnerships with leaders in the computer aided design, or cad, industry. we invest significant resources in the development of relationships with industry leaders, including cadence design systems, inc., and synopsys, inc., often assisting these companies in the product definition of their new products. we believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3d graphics market and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. we believe this approach assists us in meeting the new design schedules of pc oem and other manufacturers. we substantially increased our engineering and technical resources in fiscal year 2008, and have 3,255 full-time employees engaged in research and development as of january 27, 2008, compared to 2,668 employees as of january 28, 2007. the majority of the research and development employees added during fiscal year 2008 are located in international locations, including india, china, taiwan and various locations in europe. during fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, we incurred research and development expenditures of $691.6 million, $553.5 million and $357.1 million, respectively. research and development expenses included $76.6 million, $70.1 million and $5.9 million related to non-cash stock-based compensation for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006. 9 competition the market for gpus, mcps, and application processors that support pmps, pdas, cellular phones or other handheld devices is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. we believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, software support, conformity to industry standard application programming interface, or apis, manufacturing capabilities, price of processors, and total system costs. we believe that our ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers will demand and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of quality. we expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. in addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share. a significant source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide gpu, mcp, and application processors that support pmps, pdas, cellular phones or other handheld devices. some of our competitors may have greater marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do and may be more able to adapt to customer or technological changes. currently, intel, which has greater resources than we do, is working on a multi-core architecture code-named larrabee, which may compete with our products in various markets. intel may also release an enthusiast level discrete gpu based on the larrabee architecture. our current competitors include the following: suppliers of discrete mcps that incorporate a combination of networking, audio, communications and input/output, or i/o, functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as amd, broadcom corporation, or broadcom, silicon integrated systems, inc., or sis, via technologies, inc., or via, and intel; suppliers of gpus, including mcps that incorporate 3d graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as amd, intel, matrox electronics systems ltd., sis, and via; suppliers of application processors that support pmps, pdas, cellular phones or other handheld devices intellectual property such as amd, broadcom, fujitsu limited, imagination technologies ltd., arm holdings plc, marvell technology group ltd, or marvell, nec corporation, qualcomm incorporated, renesas technology, samsung, seiko-epson, texas instruments incorporated, and toshiba america, inc.; and suppliers of application processors for handheld and embedded devices that incorporate multimedia processing as part of their existing solutions such as broadcom, texas instruments inc., qualcomm incorporated, marvell, freescale semiconductor inc., renesas technology, samsung, and st microelectronics. we expect substantial competition from both intel's and amd's strategy of selling platform solutions, such as the success intel achieved with its centrino platform solution. amd has also announced a platform solution. additionally, we expect that intel and amd will extend this strategy to other segments, including the possibility of successfully integrating a central processing unit, or cpu, and a gpu on the same chip, as evidenced by amd's announcement of its fusion processor project. if amd and intel continue to pursue platform solutions, we may not be able to successfully compete and our business would be negatively impacted. if and to the extent we offer products in new markets, we may face competition from some of our existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. we cannot accurately predict if we will compete successfully in any new markets we may enter. if we are unable to compete in our current or new markets, demand for our products could decrease which could cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to suffer. 10 patents and proprietary rights we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. our issued patents have expiration dates from october 29, 2008 to may 24, 2027. we have numerous patents issued, allowed and pending in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. we also rely on international treaties, organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as: the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations in particular countries and regions; the location in which our products are manufactured; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. in addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. the enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. we have licensed technology from third parties for incorporation in some of our products and for defensive reasons, and expect to continue to enter into such license agreements. these licenses may result in royalty payments to third parties, the cross licensing of technology by us or payment of other consideration. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could suffer. employees as of january 27, 2008 we had 4,985 employees, 3,255 of whom were engaged in research and development and 1,730 of whom were engaged in sales, marketing, operations and administrative positions. none of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we believe our relationships with our employees are good. financial information by business segment and geographic data our chief executive officer, who is considered to be our chief operating decision maker, or codm, reviews financial information presented on a operating segment basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance. during the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, we reorganized our operating segments. we now report financial information for four operating segments to our codm: the gpu business, which is comprised primarily of our geforce products that support desktop and notebook pcs, plus memory products, the psb, which is comprised of our nvidia quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our nvidia tesla high-performance computing products, the mcp business, which is comprised of nvidia nforce core logic and motherboard gpu products, and our cpb which is comprised of our goforce and apx mobile brands and products that support handheld pmps, pdas, cellular phones, other handheld devices and license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices. in addition to these operating segments, we have the all other category that includes human resources, legal, finance, general administration and corporate marketing expenses, which total $266.2 million, $239.6 million, and $123.8 million during fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, that we do not allocate to our other operating segments as these expenses are not included in the segment operating performance measures evaluated by our codm. all other also includes the results of operations of other miscellaneous reporting segments that are neither individually reportable, nor aggregated with another operating segment. revenue in the all other segment is primarily derived from sales of components. all relevant prior period amounts have been revised to conform to the presentation of our current fiscal year. our codm does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis. operating segments do not record intersegment revenue, and, accordingly, there is none to be reported. the accounting policies for segment reporting are the same as for nvidia as a whole. the information included in note 14 of the notes to consolidated financial statements is hereby incorporated by reference. 11 executive officers of the registrant the following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and their positions as of january 27, 2008: name age position jen-hsun huang 44 president, chief executive officer and director marvin d. burkett 65 chief financial officer ajay k. puri 53 senior vice president, worldwide sales david m. shannon 52 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary debora shoquist 53 senior vice president, operations jen-hsun huang co-founded nvidia in april 1993 and has served as its president, chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors since its inception. from 1985 to 1993, mr. huang was employed at lsi logic corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions, most recently as director of coreware, the business unit responsible for lsi's system-on-a-chip strategy. from 1983 to 1985, mr. huang was a microprocessor designer for advanced micro devices, inc., a semiconductor company. mr. huang holds a b.s.e.e. degree from oregon state university and an m.s.e.e. degree from stanford university. marvin d. burkett joined nvidia as chief financial officer in september 2002. from february 2000 until joining nvidia, mr. burkett was a financial consultant and served as chief financial officer of arcot systems, a security software company. from 1998 to 1999, mr. burkett was the executive vice president and chief financial officer of packard bell nec. mr. burkett also previously spent 26 years at advanced micro devices, inc. where he held a variety of positions including chief financial officer, senior vice president and corporate controller. mr. burkett holds b.s. and m.b.a. degrees from the university of arizona. ajay k. puri joined nvidia in december 2005 as senior vice president, worldwide sales. prior to nvidia, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over a 22-year career at sun microsystems, inc. mr. puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development positions at hewlett-packard company, booz allen hamilton inc., and texas instruments incorporated. mr. puri holds an m.b.a. degree from harvard university, an m.s.e.e. degree from the california institute of technology and a b.s.e.e. degree from the university of minnesota. david m. shannon joined nvidia in august 2002 as vice president and general counsel. mr. shannon became secretary of nvidia in april 2005 and a senior vice president in december 2005. from 1993 to 2002, mr. shannon held various counsel positions at intel, including the most recent position of vice president and assistant general counsel. mr. shannon also practiced for eight years in the law firm of gibson dunn and crutcher, focusing on complex commercial and high-technology related litigation. mr. shannon holds b.a. and j.d. degrees from pepperdine university. debora shoquist joined nvidia in september 2007 as senior vice president of operations. from 2004 to 2007, ms. shoquist served as senior vice president of operations at jds uniphase corporation, a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications industry. from 2002 to 2004, she served as senior vice president and general manager of the electro-optics business at coherent, inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. her experience includes her role at quantum corporation as the president of the personal computer hard disk drive division. her experience also includes senior roles at hewlett-packard corporation. she holds a b.s degree in electrical engineering from kansas state university and a b.s. degree in biology from santa clara university. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, or the exchange act, are available free of charge on or through our internet web site, http://www.nvidia.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission, or the sec. our web site and the information on it or connected to it is not a part of this form 10-k. 12 item 1a . risk factors in evaluating nvidia and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. additionally, any one of the following risks could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. risks related to competition if we are unable to compete in the markets for our products, our financial results could be adversely impacted. the markets for our products are highly competitive and are characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards, and declining average selling prices. we believe that our ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers will demand from our products and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable prices and quality levels. we believe other factors impacting our ability to compete are: product performance; product bundling by competitors with multiple product lines; breadth and frequency of product offerings; access to customers and distribution channels; backward-forward software support; conformity to industry standard application programming interfaces; and manufacturing capabilities. we expect competition to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products, either of which could harm our business. some of these competitors may have or be able to obtain greater marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do and may be better able to adapt to customer or technological changes. currently, intel, which has greater resources than we do, is working on a multi-core architecture code-named larrabee, which may compete with our products in various markets. intel may also release an enthusiast level discrete gpu based on the larrabee architecture. in order to compete, we may have to invest substantial amounts in research and development without assurance that our products will be superior to those of our competitors or that the products will achieve market acceptance. an additional significant source of competition comes from companies that provide or intend to provide competing product solutions. for example, we are the largest supplier of amd 64 chipsets with 60% segment share in the fourth quarter of calendar year 2007, as reported in the 2007 fourth quarter pc processor and chipset report from mercury research. decline in demand for our chipsets in the amd segment as a result of the offerings of a new or existing competitor could materially impact our financial results. our current competitors include the following: suppliers of discrete mcps that incorporate a combination of networking, audio, communications and input/output functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as amd, broadcom, silicon integrated systems corporation, or sis, via technologies, inc., or via, and intel; suppliers of gpus, including mcps that incorporate 3d graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as amd, intel, matrox electronics systems ltd., sis and via; 13 suppliers of gpus or gpu intellectual property for handheld and digital consumer electronics devices that incorporate advanced graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as amd, broadcom, fujitsu limited, imagination technologies ltd., arm holdings plc, marvell technology group ltd., or marvell, nec corporation, qualcomm incorporated, or qualcomm, renesas technology, seiko-epson, texas instruments incorporated, and toshiba america, inc.; and suppliers of application processors for handheld and digital consumer electronics devices that incorporate multimedia processing as part of their existing solutions such as broadcom, texas instruments inc., qualcomm, marvell, freescale semiconductor inc., samsung and st microelectronics. if and to the extent we offer products in new markets, we may face competition from some of our existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. we cannot accurately predict if we will compete successfully in any new markets we may enter. if we are unable to compete in our current or new markets, demand for our products could decrease which could cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to suffer. as intel and amd continue to pursue platform solutions, we may not be able to successfully compete and our business would be negatively impacted. we expect substantial competition from both intel's and amd's strategy of selling platform solutions, such as the success intel achieved with its centrino platform solution. amd has also announced a platform solution. additionally, we expect that intel and amd will extend this strategy to other segments, including the possibility of successfully integrating a central processing unit, or cpu, and a gpu on the same chip, as evidenced by amd's announcement of its fusion processor project. if amd and intel continue to pursue platform solutions, we may not be able to successfully compete and our business would be negatively impacted. risks related to our partners and customers we depend on foundries to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our business. we do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. instead, industry-leading foundries manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their state-of-the-art fabrication equipment and techniques. the foundries, which have limited capacity, also manufacture products for other semiconductor companies, including some of our competitors. since we do not have long-term commitment contracts with any of the foundries, they do not have an obligation to provide us with any minimum quantity of product at any time or at any set price, except as may be provided in a specific purchase order. most of our products are only manufactured by one foundry at a time. in times of high demand, the foundries could choose to prioritize their capacity for other companies, reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, or increase the prices that they charge us. if we are unable to meet customer demand due to reduced or eliminated deliveries or have to increase the prices of our products, we could lose sales to customers, which would negatively impact our revenue and our reputation. because the lead-time needed to establish a strategic relationship with a new manufacturing partner could be several quarters, we do not have an alternative source of supply for our products. in addition, the time and effort to qualify a new foundry could result in additional expense, diversion of resources, or lost sales any of which would negatively impact our financial results. we believe that long-term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with the third-party manufacturers we use to ensure adequate product supply and competitive pricing to respond to customer demand. 14 failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products could negatively impact our financial results and damage our reputation. manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the manufacturer. low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. we do not know a yield problem exists until our design is manufactured. when a yield issue is identified, the product is analyzed and tested to determine the cause. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process. resolution of yield problems requires cooperation by and communication between us and the manufacturer. because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry capacity, decreases in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. lower than expected yields could potentially harm customer relationships, our reputation and our financial results. we are dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, which reduces our control over the delivery schedule and quantity of our products. our products are assembled, tested and packaged by independent subcontractors, such as advanced semiconductor engineering, inc., amkor technology, jsi logistics, ltd., king yuan electronics co., siliconware precision industries co. ltd., and chippac. as a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules, product quantity, or product quality. all of these subcontractors assemble, test and package products for other companies, including some of our competitors. since we do not have long-term agreements with our subcontractors, when demand for subcontractors to assemble, test or package products is high, our subcontractors may decide to prioritize the orders of other customers over our orders. since the time required to qualify a different subcontractor to assemble, test or package our products can be lengthy, if we have to find a replacement subcontractor we could experience significant delays in shipments of our products, product shortages, a decrease in the quality of our products, or an increase in product cost. any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture, assembly or testing of our products, which could cause our gross margin and revenue to decline. failure to transition to new manufacturing process technologies could adversely affect our operating results and gross margin. we use the most advanced manufacturing process technology appropriate for our products that is available from our third-party foundries. as a result, we continuously evaluate the benefits of migrating our products to smaller geometry process technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. we believe this strategy will help us remain competitive. our current product families are manufactured using 0.15 micron, 0.14 micron, 0.13 micron, 0.11 micron, 90 nanometer and 65 nanometer process technologies. manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development, which could negatively impact our operating expenses and gross margin. we have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes in the past and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our new products to smaller geometry processes. moreover, we are dependent on our third-party manufacturers to migrate to smaller geometry processes successfully. some of our competitors own their manufacturing facilities and may be able to move to a new state of the art manufacturing process more quickly than our manufacturing partners. for example, intel recently released a 45 nanometer chip for desktop computers which it is manufacturing in its foundries. if our suppliers fall behind our competitors in manufacturing processes, the development and customer demand for our products and the use of our products could be negatively impacted. the inability by us or our third-party manufacturers to effectively and efficiently transition to new manufacturing process technologies may adversely affect our operating results and our gross margin. 15 we rely on third-party vendors to supply software development tools to us for the development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools necessary to develop or enhance new or existing products. we rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements. to bring new products or product enhancements to market in a timely manner, or at all, we need software development tools that are sophisticated enough or technologically advanced enough to complete our design, simulations and verifications. in the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. in the future, the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. unavailability of software development tools may result in our missing design cycles or losing design wins either of which could result in a loss of market share or negatively impact our operating results. because of the importance of software development tools to the development and enhancement of our products, a critical component of our product development efforts is our partnerships with leaders in the computer-aided design industry, including cadence design systems, inc. and synopsys, inc. we have invested significant resources to develop relationships with these industry leaders and have often assisted them in the definition of their new products. we believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3d graphics, communications and networking segments and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. if these relationships are not successful, we may be unable to develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner, which could result in a loss of market share, a decrease in revenue or negatively impact our operating results. we sell our products to a small number of customers and our business could suffer if we lose any of these customers. we have a limited number of customers and our sales are highly concentrated. sales to our significant customers accounted for approximately 10% of our total revenue from one customer during fiscal year 2008, 12% of our total revenue from one customer during fiscal year 2007, and 26% of our total revenue from two customers during fiscal year 2006. although a small number of our other customers represents the majority of our revenue, their end customers include a large number of original equipment manufacturers, or oems, and system integrators throughout the world who, in many cases, specify the graphics supplier. our sales process involves achieving key design wins with leading personal computer, or pc, oems and major system builders and supporting the product design into high volume production with key contract equipment manufacturers, or cems, original design manufacturers, or odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. these design wins in turn influence the retail and system builder channel that is serviced by cems, odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. our distribution strategy is to work with a small number of leading independent cems, odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers, and distributors, each of which has relationships with a broad range of system builders and leading pc oems. if we were to lose sales to our pc oems, cems, odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers and were unable to replace the lost sales with sales to different customers, they were to significantly reduce the number of products they order from us, or we were unable to collect accounts receivable from them, our revenue may not reach or exceed the expected level in any period, which could harm our financial condition and our results of operations. 16 any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, including from foreign customers, could harm our operating results and financial condition. our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers' businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. two customers accounted for approximately 21% and 23% of our accounts receivable balance at january 27, 2008 and january 28, 2007, respectively. difficulties in collecting accounts receivable or the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we continue to work directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts receivable from them. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. this allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, and we may be required to pay higher credit insurance premiums, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. in the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results. risks related to our business and products our failure to estimate customer demand properly could adversely affect our financial results. our inventory purchases are based upon future demand forecasts or orders from our customers and may not accurately predict the quantity or type of products that our customers will want or will ultimately end up purchasing. in forecasting demand, we make multiple assumptions any of which may prove to be incorrect. situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of the value of our inventory and/or a reduction in average selling prices, and where our gross margin could be adversely affected include: if there were a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements; if we fail to estimate customer demand properly for our older products as our newer products are introduced; or if our competition were to take unexpected competitive pricing actions. conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our third party manufacturing partners may not have adequate capacity to increase production for us meaning that we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill our customers' orders on a timely basis. even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost effective or timely manner. inability to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, could damage our customer relationships, result in lost revenue, cause a loss in market share, impact our customer relationships or damage our reputation, any of which could adversely impact our business. 17 because we order products or materials in advance of anticipated customer demand our ability to reduce our inventory purchase commitments quickly in response to lower than expected demand is limited. we manufacture our products based on forecasts of customer demand in order to have shorter shipment lead times for our customers. as a result, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur or may build inventory anticipating demand for a product that does not materialize. any inability to sell products to which we have devoted resources could harm our business. in addition, cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margin and restrict our ability to fund operations. additionally, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. we could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding inventory write-downs if growth slows or does not materialize or if we incorrectly forecast product demand, which could negatively impact our financial results. our business results could be adversely affected if our product development efforts are unsuccessful. in the past, we have experienced delays in the development of new products. any delay or failure of our gpus, our other products, or other technologies to meet or exceed specifications of our customers or competitive products could materially harm our business if customers do not buy our products. the success of our new product introductions will depend on many factors, including the following: proper new product definition; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; availability of next-generation software development tools to design, simulate and verify our products; our dependence on third-parties to effectively manufacture, assemble, test and package our new products in a timely manner while maintaining product quality; differentiation of new products from those of our competitors; market acceptance of our products and our customers' products; and availability of adequate quantity and configurations of various types of memory products. our failure to successfully develop, introduce or achieve market acceptance for new processors or other technologies could impact our revenue, gross margin and other financial results. our failure to identify new market or product opportunities or to develop new products could harm our business. as our gpus and other processors develop and competition increases, we anticipate that product life cycles at the high end will remain short and average selling prices will decline. in particular, we expect average selling prices and gross margins for our processors to decline as each product matures and as unit volume increases. as a result, we will need to introduce new products and enhancements to existing products to maintain or improve overall average selling prices and our gross margin. in order for our processors to achieve high volumes, leading pc oems, odms, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers must select our processors for design into their products, and then successfully complete the designs of their products and sell them. we may be unable to successfully identify new product opportunities or to develop and bring to market new products in a timely fashion. additionally, we cannot guarantee that new products we develop will be selected for design into pc oems', odms', or add-in board and motherboard manufacturers' products, that any new designs will be successfully completed, or that any new products will be sold. 18 as the complexity of our products and the manufacturing process for our products increases, there is an increasing risk that we will experience problems with the performance of our products and that there will be delays in the development, introduction or volume shipment of our products. we may experience difficulties related to the production of current or future products or other factors that may delay the introduction or volume sale of new products we develop. in addition, we may be unable to successfully manage the production transition risks with respect to future products. failure to achieve any of the foregoing with respect to future products or product enhancements could result in rapidly declining average selling prices, reduced margins and reduced demand for products or loss of market share. in addition, products or technologies developed by others may render our processors non-competitive or obsolete or result in our holding excess inventory, which would harm our business. if we are unable to achieve design wins, our products may not be adopted by our target markets or customers either of which could negatively impact our financial results. the success of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to develop new competitive products for our target markets and customers. we believe achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen for hardware components or subassemblies designed by oems, odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers, are an integral part of our future success. our oem, odm, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers' customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles or in connection with trade shows. accordingly, when our customers are making their design decisions, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products in order to be included in our customers' new system configurations. this requires that we: anticipate the features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; price our products competitively; and introduce products to the market within our customers' limited design cycles. if oems, odms, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their systems until at least the next design configuration. therefore, we endeavor to develop close relationships with our oems and odms, in an attempt to better anticipate and address customer needs in new products so that we will achieve design wins. our ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and be compliant with evolving industry standards. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers like advanced micro devices inc., or amd, intel and microsoft corporation, or microsoft. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, we may not be designed into our customers' product designs. however, to be compliant with changes to industry standards, we may have to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products which could negatively impact our gross margin or operating results. if we are unable to achieve new design wins for existing or new customers, we may lose market share and our operating results would be negatively impacted. 19 we may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating results. if new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our operating expenses would increase. we have increased our engineering and technical resources and had 3,255, 2,668 and 1,654 full-time employees engaged in research and development as of january 27, 2008, january 28, 2007 and january 29, 2006, respectively. research and development expenditures were $691.6 million, $553.5 million and $357.1 million for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. research and development expenses included non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $76.6 million and $70.1 million in fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to non-cash stock based compensation, which we began to record in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007 as a result of our adoption of sfas no. 123(r). if we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without an increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenue which could negatively impact our financial results. in order to remain competitive, which may include entering new markets, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development as well as hiring additional employees. if our products contain significant defects our financial results could be negatively impacted, our reputation could be damaged and we could lose market share. our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures when first introduced or when we release new versions or enhancements. past products have and future products or enhancements may contain defects, errors or bugs. our products typically only go through one verification cycle prior to volume production and distribution. as a result, our products may contain undetected defects or flaws prior to volume production and distribution. if any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. such efforts could divert our management's and engineers' attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and gross margin. additionally, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. also, we may be required to reimburse customers for costs to repair or replace the products in the field, which could cause our revenue to decline. a product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, or result in our customers working with our competitors. costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. because our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, our failure to forecast changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our gross margin. we continue to pursue improved gross margin. our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, including: the mix of our products sold; average selling prices; introduction of new products; sales discounts; unexpected pricing actions by our competitors; the cost of product components; and the yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our products. 20 if we do not correctly forecast the impact of any of the relevant factors on our business, we may not be able to take action in time to counteract any negative impact on our gross margin. in addition, if we are unable to meet our gross margin target for any period or the target set by analysts, the trading price of our common stock may decline. we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. we have acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products and business. we may enter into future acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, in order to complement or expand our current businesses or enter into a new business market. negotiations associated with an acquisition or strategic investment could divert management's attention and other company resources. any of the following risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products, our ability to sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results: difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business; difficulty in operating in a new or multiple new locations; disruption of our ongoing businesses; disruption of the ongoing business of the company we invest in or acquire; difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; disruption of or delays in ongoing research and development efforts; diversion of capital and other resources; assumption of liabilities; diversion of resources and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or investments; difficulties in entering into new markets in which we have limited or no experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger positions; and impairment of relationships with employees and customers, or the loss of any of our key employees or customers of our target's key employees or customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. in addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, the issuance of convertible debt securities or a combination of cash, convertible debt and common stock. if we make an investment in cash or use cash to pay for all or a portion of an acquisition, our cash reserves would be reduced which could negatively impact the growth of our business or our ability to develop new products. however, if we pay the consideration with shares of common stock, or convertible debentures, the holdings of our existing stockholders would be diluted. we cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future strategic investments or acquisitions, or the effect that any such investments or acquisitions might have on our operations or financial results. 21 we are dependent on key employees and the loss of any of these employees could negatively impact our business. our future success and ability to compete is substantially dependent on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified key personnel. the market for key employees in the semiconductor industry can be competitive. none of our key employees is bound by an employment agreement, meaning our relationships with all of our key employees are at will. the loss of the services of any of these employees without an adequate replacement or our inability to hire new employees as needed could delay our product development efforts, harm our ability to sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business. our operating expenses are relatively fixed and we may not be able to reduce operating expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. our operating expenses, which are comprised of research and development expenses and sales, general and administrative expenses, represented 25%, 28% and 24% of our total revenue during fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. operating expenses included non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $122.5 million and $108.5 million in fiscal years 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to non-cash stock based compensation which we began to record in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007 as a result of our adoption of statement of financial accounting standards no. 123(r), or sfas no. 123(r), share-based payment . since we often recognize a substantial portion of our revenue in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to adjust our operating expenses in a timely manner in response to any unanticipated revenue shortfalls. further, some of our operating expenses, like non-cash stock-based compensation expense can only be adjusted over a longer period of time and cannot be reduced during a quarter. if we are unable to reduce operating expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls, our financial results would be negatively impacted. expensing employee stock options materially and adversely affects our reported operating results and could also adversely affect our competitive position. since inception, we have used stock options and our employee stock purchase program as fundamental components of our compensation packages. we believe that these incentives directly motivate our employees and, through the use of vesting, encourage our employees to remain with us. as a result of adjustments arising from our restatement related to stock option grant dates, our operating results for fiscal years prior to fiscal year 2007 contain recorded amounts of stock-based compensation expense. for our fiscal years 2000 through 2006, this stock-based compensation expense was calculated using primarily the intrinsic value-based method under accounting principles board opinion no. 25, or apb 25, accounting for stock issued to employees and related interpretations. in december 2004, the financial accounting standards board, or fasb, issued sfas no. 123(r) which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all stock-based compensation payments. sfas no. 123(r) requires that we record compensation expense for stock options and our employee stock purchase plan using the fair value of those awards. during the fiscal years 2008 and 2007 we recorded $133.4 million and $116.7 million, respectively, related to non-cash stock-based compensation, resulting from our compliance with sfas no. 123(r), which negatively impacted our operating results. we believe that sfas no. 123(r) will continue to negatively impact our operating results. to the extent that sfas no. 123(r) makes it more expensive to grant stock options or to continue to have an employee stock purchase program, we may decide to incur increased cash compensation costs. in addition, actions that we may take to reduce stock-based compensation expense that may be more severe than any actions our competitors may implement and may make it difficult to attract retain and motivate employees, which could adversely affect our competitive position as well as our business and operating results. 22 we may be required to record a charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating results. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we review our amortizable intangible assets and goodwill for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable assets may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry or in any of our business units. estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. however, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. for example, if one of our business units does not meet its near-term and longer-term forecasts, the goodwill assigned to the business unit could be impaired. we may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations. our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our stock could decline. many of our revenue components fluctuate and are difficult to predict, and our operating expenses are largely independent of revenue. therefore, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and profits or losses in any particular period. any one or more of the risks discussed in this form 10-k or other factors could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income. accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. similarly, the results of any quarterly or full fiscal year period are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for a subsequent quarter or a full fiscal year. as a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. we believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may continue to be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations. risks related to market conditions we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates. at january 27, 2008 and january 28, 2007, we had $1.81 billion and $1.12 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset-backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and highly liquid debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. as of january 27, 2008, we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. these investments are denominated in united states dollars. 23 we account for our investment instruments in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 115, or sfas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities . all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale under sfas no. 115. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in income statement due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other-than-temporary. these securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders' equity, net of tax. recent u.s. sub-prime mortgage defaults have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. the short-term funding markets experienced issues during the third and fourth quarter of calendar 2007, leading to liquidity disruption in the market. if the global credit market continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine some of our investments are impaired, which could adversely impact our financial results. as of january 27, 2008, we did not have any issuer concentration in excess of 10% of our investment portfolio. however, our investments in the financial sector and government agencies accounted for approximately 46% and 22%, respectively, of our total investment portfolio. if the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2%-5%, it would result in changes in fair market values for these investments by approximately $22-$54 million. we are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. we conduct our business worldwide. our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third-parties located outside of the united states. we generated 89%, 86% and 84% of total revenues for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, from sales to customers outside the united states and other americas. as of january 27, 2008, we had offices in twelve countries outside of the united states. the manufacture, assembly, test and packaging of our products outside of the united states, operation of offices outside of the united states, and sales to customers internationally subjects us to a number of risks, including: international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; complying with a variety of foreign laws; differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices; cultural differences in the conduct of business; inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition of additional taxes and penalties; and other factors beyond our control such as terrorism, civil unrest, war and diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome and the avian flu. if sales to any of our customers outside of the united states and other americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. 24 our international operations in australia, taiwan, japan, korea, china, hong kong, india, france, russia, germany, finland and the united kingdom are subject to many of the above listed risks. we intend to continue to expand our existing operations and expect to open other international offices. difficulties with our international operations, including finding appropriate staffing and office space, may divert management's attention and other resources any of which could negatively impact our operating results. the economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. all of our international sales to date have been denominated in united states dollars. accordingly, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. we anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities. if our products do not continue to be adopted by the desktop pc, notebook pc, workstation, high-performance computing, pmp, pda, cellular handheld devices, and video game console markets or if the demand for new and innovative products in these markets decreases, our business and operating results would suffer. our success depends in part upon continued broad adoption of our processors for 3d graphics and multimedia in desktop pc, notebook pc, workstation, high-performance computing, pmp, pda, cellular handheld devices, and video game console applications. the market for processors has been characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in pricing of dynamic random-access memory devices and other changes in the total system cost of add-in boards, as well as by severe price competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. broad market acceptance is difficult to achieve and such market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition and frequent new technology and product introductions. our gpu and mcp businesses together comprised of approximately 79%, 77% and 74% of revenue for fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. as such, our financial results would suffer if for any reason our current or future gpus or mcps do not continue to achieve widespread adoption by the pc market. if we are unable to complete the timely development of new products or if we were unable to successfully and cost-effectively manufacture and deliver products that meet the requirements of the desktop pc, notebook pc, workstation, high-performance computing, pmp, pda, cellular phone, and video game console markets, we may experience a decrease in revenue which could negatively impact our operating results. additionally, there can be no assurance that the industry will continue to demand new products with improved standards, features or performance. if our customers, oems, odms, add-in-card and motherboard manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies, do not continue to design products that require more advanced or efficient processors and/or the market does not continue to demand new products with increased performance, features, functionality or standards, sales of our products could decline. decreased sales of our products for these markets could negatively impact our revenue and our financial results. we are dependent on the pc market and its rate of growth in the future may have a negative impact on our business. we derive and expect to continue to derive the majority of our revenue from the sale or license of products for use in the desktop pc and notebook pc markets, including professional workstations. a reduction in sales of pcs, or a reduction in the growth rate of pc sales, may reduce demand for our products. these changes in demand could be large and sudden. since pc manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they incorrectly forecast product transitions. in these cases, pc manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inventory from suppliers like us until their excess inventory has been absorbed, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. 25 our business is cyclical in nature and an industry downturn could harm our financial results. our business is directly affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, including alternating periods of overcapacity and capacity constraints, variations in manufacturing costs and yields, significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development, and rapid technological change. if we are unable to respond to changes in our industry, which can be unpredictable and rapid, in an efficient and timely manner, our operating results could suffer. in particular, from time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant and sometimes prolonged downturns characterized by diminished product demand, increased inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. if we cannot take appropriate actions such as reducing our manufacturing or operating costs to sufficiently offset declines in demand, increased inventories, or decreased selling prices during a downturn, our revenue and operating results will suffer. risks related to regulatory and other legal matters the united states department of justice's pending investigation into the market for graphics processors and the ongoing civil actions could adversely affect our business. on november 29, 2006, we received a subpoena from the san francisco office of the antitrust division of the united states department of justice, or doj, in connection with the doj's investigation into potential antitrust violations related to gpus and cards. no specific allegations have been made against us. we are cooperating with the doj in its investigation. as of march 5, 2008, 55 civil complaints have been filed against us. the majority of the complaints were filed in the northern district of california, several were filed in the central district of california, and other cases were filed in several other federal district courts. on april 18, 2007, the judicial panel on multidistrict litigation transferred the actions currently pending outside of the northern district of california to the northern district of california for coordination of pretrial proceedings before the honorable william h. alsup. by agreement of the parties, judge alsup will retain jurisdiction over the consolidated cases through trial or other resolution. in the consolidated proceedings, two groups of plaintiffs (one representing all direct purchasers of graphic processing units, or gpus, and the other representing all indirect purchasers) filed consolidated, amended class-action complaints. these complaints purport to assert federal antitrust claims based on alleged price fixing, market allocation, and other alleged anti-competitive agreements between us and ati technologies, inc., or ati and amd, as a result of its acquisition of ati. the indirect purchasers' consolidated amended complaint also asserts a variety of state law antitrust, unfair competition and consumer protection claims on the same allegations, as well as a common law claim for unjust enrichment. plaintiffs filed their first consolidated complaints on june 14, 2007. on july 16, 2007, we moved to dismiss those complaints. the motions to dismiss were heard by judge alsup on september 20, 2007. the court subsequently granted and denied the motions in part, and gave the plaintiffs leave to move to amend the complaints. on november 7, 2007, the court granted plaintiffs' motion to file amended complaints, ordered defendants to answer the complaints, lifted a previously entered stay on discovery, and set a trial date for january 12, 2009. discovery is underway and plaintiffs are currently required to file any motion for class certification by april 24, 2008. we believe the allegations in the complaints are without merit and intend to vigorously defend the cases. costs of defense and any damages resulting from a ruling against us or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our business. 26 the matters relating to the board's review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have resulted in litigation, which could harm our financial results. on august 10, 2006, we announced that the audit committee of our board, with the assistance of outside legal counsel, was conducting a review of our stock option practices covering the time from our initial public offering in 1999, our fiscal year 2000, through june 2006. the audit committee reached the conclusion that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock option grants in certain prior periods. as a result, we recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, related to stock option grants. the audit committee's review of our historic stock option practices identified a number of occasions on which the measurement date used for financial accounting and reporting purposes for stock options granted to certain of our employees was different from the actual grant date. to correct these accounting errors, we amended our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended january 29, 2006 and our quarterly report on form 10-q for the three months ended april 30, 2006 to restate the consolidated financial statements contained in those reports. this review of our historical stock option granting practices and subsequent restatement required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services and diverted our management's attention from our business. additionally, the review and the resulting restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation. ten derivative complaints have been filed in state and federal court pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. we cannot assure you that these or future similar complaints, or any future litigation or regulatory action will result in the same conclusions reached by the audit committee. on august 5, 2007, our board authorized the formation of a special litigation committee to investigate, evaluate, and make a determination as to how we should proceed with respect to the claims and allegations asserted in the underlying derivative cases brought on behalf of nvidia. currently, the special litigation committee's review is ongoing. the conduct and resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive and could distract our management's attention from the conduct of our business. furthermore, if we are subject to adverse rulings, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. we have numerous patents issued, allowed and pending in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. we also rely on international treaties, organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as: the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations in particular countries and regions; the location in which our products are manufactured; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. 27 our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. in addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. the enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. litigation to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights or to enforce our intellectual property rights and the outcome of such litigation could result in substantial costs to us. we expect that as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases and as competition intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims and lawsuits may increase. we may become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us or by our customers that we have agreed to indemnify them for certain claims of infringement. an unfavorable ruling could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. in addition, we may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property; enforce our patents; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. if we have to initiate litigation in order to protect our intellectual property, our operating expenses may increase which could negatively impact our operating results. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. if infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third parties' patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnified customers may have to seek a license to the third parties' patent or other intellectual property rights. however, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. if we or one of our indemnified customers is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. we may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. furthermore, the indemnification of a customer may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. we are a party to litigation, which, if determined adversely to us, could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. we are a party to litigation. there can be no assurance that any litigation to which we are a party will be resolved in our favor. any claim that is successfully asserted against us may cause us to pay substantial damages, including punitive damages, and other related fees. regardless of whether lawsuits are resolved in our favor or if we are the plaintiff or the defendant in the litigation, any lawsuits to which we are a party will likely be expensive and time consuming to defend or resolve. such lawsuits could also harm our relationships with existing customers and result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. 28 our operating results may be adversely affected if we are subject to unexpected tax liabilities. we are subject to taxation by a number of taxing authorities both in the united states and throughout the world. tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for our income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, any of the below could cause our effective tax rate to be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the united states or abroad or the issuance of new interpretative accounting guidance related to uncertain transactions and calculations where the tax treatment was previously uncertain; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of any of the above, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws or changes in the interpretation of tax laws. our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities. we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. for example, we are subject to the european union directive on restriction of hazardous substances directive, or rohs directive, that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead, and other hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment in the market in the european union. we could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with the european union directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment, or weee. the weee directs members of the european union to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electric and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and environmentally responsible disposal of certain products sold into the market after august 15, 2005. it is possible that unanticipated supply shortages, delays or excess non-compliant inventory may occur as a result of the rohs directive, weee, and other domestic or international environmental regulations. failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences including costs, fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities and could impact our ability to conduct business in the countries or states that have adopted these types of regulations. 29 while we believe that we have adequate internal control over financial reporting, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm determines that we do not, our reputation may be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to audit the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. however, the manner in which companies and their independent public accounting firms apply these requirements and testing companies' internal controls, remains subject to some judgment. to date, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to section 404 compliance. despite our efforts, if we identify a material weakness in our internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate that material weakness in a timely manner, or that we will be able to maintain all of the controls necessary to determine that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported results of operations . we prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states. these principles are constantly subject to review and interpretation by the securities and exchange commission, or, sec, and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. a change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of our board to create and issue preferred stock without prior stockholder approval; the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; a classified board; and advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investment and interest rate risk at january 27, 2008 and january 28, 2007, we had $1.81 billion and $1.12 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset-backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and highly liquid debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. as of january 27, 2008, we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. these investments are denominated in united states dollars. we account for our investment instruments in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 115, or sfas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities . all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale under sfas no. 115. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in securities market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in income statement due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other-than-temporary. these securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders' equity, net of tax. as of january 27, 2008, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both +/- 0.5% would result in changes in fair market values for these investments of approximately $3.1 million. recent u.s. sub-prime mortgage defaults have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. the short-term funding markets experienced issues during the third and fourth quarter of calendar 2007, leading to liquidity disruption in the market. if the global credit market continues to deteriorate, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine some of our investments are impaired, which could adversely impact our financial results. as of january 27, 2008, we did not have any issuer concentration in excess of 10% of our investment portfolio. however, our investments in the financial sector and government agencies accounted for approximately 46% and 22%, respectively, of our total investment portfolio. if the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2%-5%, it would result in changes in fair market values for these investments by approximately $22-$54 million. exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other income (expense), net in our consolidated financial statements and to date have not been significant. the aggregate exchange loss included in determining net income was $1.7 million in fiscal year 2008 and $0.5 million in fiscal year 2007. the impact of exchange gain/loss was not material in fiscal year 2006. currently, sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. we may enter into certain transactions such as forward contracts which are designed to reduce the future potential impact resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. there were no forward exchange contracts outstanding at january 27, 2008. 57risk factors in evaluating nvidia and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. additionally, any one of the following risks could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. risks related to our business and industry global economic conditions have reduced demand for our products, adversely impacted our customers and suppliers and harmed our business. our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a continuing risk to our business as consumers and businesses have postponed spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which have reduced the demand for our products. other factors that could depress demand for our products in the future include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. these and other economic factors have reduced demand for our products and could further harm our business, financial condition and operating results. the current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact our treasury operations. other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. for example, during fiscal year 2009, we recorded impairment charges of $5.6 million related to our money market investment in the reserve international liquidity fund, ltd., or the international reserve fund. the current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. our business is cyclical in nature and is currently experiencing a severe downturn, which has harmed and may continue to harm our financial results. our business is directly affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is currently experiencing a severe downturn. the semiconductor industry has been adversely affected by many factors, including the current global downturn, ongoing efforts by our customers to reduce their spending, diminished product demand, increased inventory levels, lower average selling prices, uncertainty regarding long-term growth rates and underlying financial health and increased competition. these factors, could, among other things, limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue and in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if our actions to reduce our operating expenses to sufficiently offset these factors during this downturn are unsuccessful, our operating results will suffer. our revenue may fluctuate while our operating expenses are relatively fixed, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. demand for many of our revenue components fluctuate and are difficult to predict, and our operating expenses are relatively fixed and largely independent of revenue. therefore, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and profits or losses in any particular period. our operating expenses, which are comprised of research and development expenses, sales, general and administrative expenses and restructuring and other charges, represented 36%, 25% and 28% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. since we often recognize a substantial portion of our revenue in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to adjust our operating expenses in a timely manner in response to any unanticipated revenue shortfalls in any quarter as was the case in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. our operating expenses, which are comprised of research and development expenses and sales, general and administrative expenses and restructuring and other charges, represented 66% of our total revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. further, some of our operating expenses, like stock-based compensation expense can only be adjusted over a longer period of time and cannot be reduced during a quarter. if we are unable to reduce operating expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls, our financial results will be negatively impacted. 15 in september 2008, we announced a workforce reduction to allow for continued investment in strategic growth areas, which was completed in the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. as a result, we eliminated approximately 360 positions worldwide, or about 6.5% of our global workforce. during fiscal year 2009, expenses associated with the workforce reduction, which were comprised primarily of severance and benefits payments to these employees, totaled $8.0 million. we anticipate that the expected decrease in operating expenses from this action will be offset by continued investment in strategic growth areas. in addition, in response to the current economic environment, we have commenced several cost reduction measures which are designed to reduce our operating expenses and will continue to focus on reducing our operating expenses during fiscal year 2010. please refer to the discussion in note 19 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this form 10-k for the potential impact of the tender offer on operating expenses during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. any one or more of the risks discussed in this annual report on form 10-k or other factors could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income. accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. similarly, the results of any quarterly or full fiscal year period are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for a subsequent quarter or a full fiscal year. as a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. we believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may continue to be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations. our failure to estimate customer demand properly could adversely affect our financial results. we manufacture our products based on forecasts of customer demand in order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers. as a result, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur or may build inventory anticipating demand for a product that does not materialize. the current negative worldwide economic conditions and market instability makes it increasingly difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast future product demand trends. in forecasting demand, we make multiple assumptions any of which may prove to be incorrect. situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include: if there were a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements; if we fail to estimate customer demand properly for our older products as our newer products are introduced; or if our competition were to take unexpected competitive pricing actions. any inability to sell products to which we have devoted resources could harm our business. in addition, cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margin and restrict our ability to fund operations. additionally, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. we could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding inventory write-downs and/or a reduction in average selling prices if growth slows or does not materialize, or if we incorrectly forecast product demand, which could negatively impact our financial results. conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our third party manufacturing partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production for us meaning that we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill our customers' orders on a timely basis. even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost effective or timely manner. inability to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, could damage our customer relationships, result in lost revenue, cause a loss in market share, impact our customer relationships or damage our reputation, any of which could adversely impact our business. because our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, our failure to forecast changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our gross margin. we are focused on improving our gross margin. our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, including: the mix of our products sold; average selling prices; introduction of new products; product transitions; sales discounts; unexpected pricing actions by our competitors; the cost of product components; and the yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our products. during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, our gross margin declined to 29.4% as compared to 45.7% during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 and decreased from 41.0% from the third quarter of fiscal year 2009. if we do not correctly forecast the impact of any of the relevant factors on our business, there may not be any actions we can take or we may not be able to take any possible actions in time to counteract any negative impact on our gross margin. additionally, during fiscal year 2009, the revenue and gross margins from our sale of desktop products decreased primarily due to a decline in the standalone desktop market segment as reported in the december 2008 pc graphics report from mercury research. this decline was driven by a combination of market migration from desktop pcs towards notebook pcs and an overall market shift in the mix of products towards lower priced products. if the overall shift in the demand from the consumer continues to shift towards lower priced products, it will have an adverse impact on our gross margin. in addition, if we are unable to meet our gross margin target for any period or the target set by analysts, the trading price of our common stock may decline. 16 we are dependent on the personal computer market and its rate of growth in the future may have a negative impact on our business. we derive and expect to continue to derive the majority of our revenue from the sale or license of products for use in the desktop personal computer, or pc, and notebook pc markets, including professional workstations. a reduction in sales of pcs, or a reduction in the growth rate of pc sales, may reduce demand for our products. these changes in demand could be large and sudden. during fiscal year 2009, sales of our desktop gpu products decreased by approximately 29% compared to fiscal year 2008. these decreases were primarily due to the standalone desktop gpu market segment decline as reported in the pc graphics december 2008 report from mercury research. since pc manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they incorrectly forecast product transitions. in these cases, pc manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inventory from suppliers like us until their excess inventory has been absorbed, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. if we are unable to compete in the markets for our products, our financial results could be adversely impacted. the market for gpus, mcps, and computer-on-a-chip products that support netbooks, pnds, pmps, pdas, cellular phones or other handheld devices is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. we believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, software support, conformity to industry standard application programming interface, or apis, manufacturing capabilities, price of processors, and total system costs. we believe that our ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers will demand and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of quality. we expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. in addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share. we believe other factors impacting our ability to compete are: product performance; product bundling by competitors with multiple product lines; breadth and frequency of product offerings; access to customers and distribution channels; backward-forward software support; conformity to industry standard application programming interfaces; and manufacturing capabilities. a significant source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide gpu, mcp, and computer-on-a-chip products that support netbooks, pnds, pmps, pdas, cellular phones or other handheld devices. some of our competitors may have greater marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do and may be more able to adapt to customer or technological changes. currently, intel corporation, or intel, which has greater resources than we do, is working on a multi-core architecture code-named larrabee, which may compete with our products in various markets. intel may also release an enthusiast level discrete gpu based on the larrabee architecture. additionally, in fiscal year 2009, intel also introduced the intel atom processor which is designed for lower cost pcs. intel may also release a second generation of atom chips by 2010 which is expected to have an improved battery life. the intel atom processor may compete with our products that support netbooks, pdas, cellular phones and other handheld devices. 17 our current competitors include the following: suppliers of discrete mcps that incorporate a combination of networking, audio, communications and input/output, or i/o, functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as amd, broadcom corporation, or broadcom, silicon integrated systems, inc., or sis, via technologies, inc., or via, and intel; suppliers of gpus, including mcps that incorporate 3d graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as amd, intel, matrox electronics systems ltd., sis, and via; suppliers of computer-on-a-chip products that support netbooks, pnds, pmps, pdas, cellular phones or other handheld devices such as amd, broadcom, fujitsu limited, imagination technologies ltd., arm holdings plc, marvell technology group ltd, or marvell, nec corporation, qualcomm incorporated, renesas technology, samsung, seiko-epson, texas instruments incorporated, and toshiba america, inc.; and suppliers of computer-on-a-chip products for handheld and embedded devices that incorporate multimedia processing as part of their existing solutions such as broadcom, texas instruments inc., qualcomm incorporated, marvell, freescale semiconductor inc., renesas technology, samsung, and st microelectronics. if and to the extent we offer products in new markets, we may face competition from some of our existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. for example, in the case of our cpb, our tegra and goforce products primarily compete in architecture used in multimedia cellular phones and handheld devices. we believe that mobile devices like phones, music players, and portable navigation devices will increasingly become more consumer pc-like and be capable of delivering all the entertainment and web experiences in a handheld device. we cannot accurately predict if we will compete successfully in any of the new markets we may enter. if we are unable to compete in our current or new markets, demand for our products could decrease which could cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to suffer. our gpu and mcp products are currently used with both intel and amd processors. in february 2009, intel filed suit against us, related to a patent license agreement that we signed with intel in 2004. intel seeks an order from the court declaring that the license does not extend to a new intel processor architecture and enjoining us from stating that we have licensing rights for this architecture. if intel successfully obtains such a court order, we could be unable to sell our mcp products for use with these intel processors and our competitive position would be harmed. in addition, in order to continue to sell mcp products for use with these intel processors we could be required to negotiate a new license agreement with intel and we may not be able to do so on reasonable terms, if at all. as intel and amd continue to pursue platform solutions, we may not be able to successfully compete and our business would be negatively impacted. we expect substantial competition from both intel's and amd's strategy of selling platform solutions, such as the success intel achieved with its centrino platform solution. amd has also announced a platform solution. additionally, we expect that intel and amd will extend this strategy to other segments, including the possibility of successfully integrating a central processing unit, or cpu, and a gpu on the same chip, as evidenced by amd's announcement of its fusion processor project. if amd and intel continue to pursue platform solutions, we may not be able to successfully compete and our business would be negatively impacted. if our products contain significant defects our financial results could be negatively impacted, our reputation could be damaged and we could lose market share. our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. if any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. such efforts could divert our engineers' attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. in addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including our customers' costs to repair or replace products in the field. a product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, could result in the shifting of business to our competitors and could result in litigation against us. costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. for example, in july 2008, we recorded a $196.0 million charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation media and communications processor, or mcp, and gpu products used in notebook systems. in september, october and november 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted mcp and gpu products. please refer to the risk entitled we are subject to litigation arising from alleged defects in our previous generation mcp and gpu products, which if determined adversely to us, could harm our business for the risk associated with this litigation. 18 we are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. we conduct our business worldwide. our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third-parties located outside of the united states. we generated 87%, 89% and 86% of our revenue for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, from sales to customers outside the united states and other americas. as of january 25, 2009, we had offices in fifteen countries outside of the united states. the manufacture, assembly, test and packaging of our products outside of the united states, operation of offices outside of the united states, and sales to customers internationally subjects us to a number of risks, including: international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; complying with a variety of foreign laws; differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices; cultural differences in the conduct of business; inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition of additional taxes and penalties; and other factors beyond our control such as terrorism, civil unrest, war and diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome and the avian flu. if sales to any of our customers outside of the united states and other americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. our international operations in australia, china, finland, france, germany, hong kong, india, japan, korea, russia, singapore, sweden, switzerland, taiwan, and the united kingdom are subject to many of the above listed risks. difficulties with our international operations, including finding appropriate staffing and office space, may divert management's attention and other resources any of which could negatively impact our operating results. the economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. all of our international sales to date have been denominated in united states dollars. accordingly, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. we anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities. if our products do not continue to be adopted by the desktop pc, notebook pc, workstation, high-performance computing, netbook, personal media player, or pmp, personal digital assistant, or pda, cellular handheld device, and video game console markets or if the demand for new and innovative products in these markets decreases, our business and operating results would suffer. our success depends in part upon continued broad adoption of our processors for 3d graphics and multimedia in desktop pc, notebook pc, workstation, high-performance computing, netbooks, pmps, pdas, cellular handheld devices, and video game console applications. the market for processors has been characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in pricing of dynamic random-access memory devices and other changes in the total system cost of add-in boards, as well as by severe price competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. broad market acceptance is difficult to achieve and such market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition and frequent new technology and product introductions. our gpu and mcp businesses together comprised approximately 75%, 79% and 77% of our revenue during fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. as such, our financial results would suffer if for any reason our current or future gpus or mcps do not continue to achieve widespread adoption by the pc market. if we are unable to complete the timely development of new products or if we were unable to successfully and cost-effectively manufacture and deliver products that meet the requirements of the desktop pc, notebook pc, workstation, high-performance computing, netbook, pmp, pda, cellular phone, and video game console markets, we may experience a decrease in revenue which could negatively impact our operating results. additionally, there can be no assurance that the industry will continue to demand new products with improved standards, features or performance. if our customers, oems, odms, add-in-card and motherboard manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies, do not continue to design products that require more advanced or efficient processors and/or the market does not continue to demand new products with increased performance, features, functionality or standards, sales of our products could decline and the markets for our products could shrink. decreased sales of our products for these markets could negatively impact our revenue and our financial results. 19 our business results could be adversely affected if the identification and development of new products or entry into or development of a new market is delayed or unsuccessful. in order to maintain or improve our financial results, we will need to continue to identify and develop new products as well as identify and enter new markets. as our gpus and other processors develop and competition increases, we anticipate that product life cycles at the high end will remain short and average selling prices will decline. in particular, average selling prices and gross margins for our gpus and other processors could decline as each product matures and as unit volume increases. as a result, we will need to introduce new products and enhancements to existing products to maintain or improve overall average selling prices, our gross margin and our financial results. we believe the success of our new product introductions will depend on many factors outlined elsewhere in these risk factors as well as the following: market demand for new products and enhancements to existing products; timely completion and introduction of new product designs and new opportunities for existing products; seamless transitions from an older product to a new product; differentiation of our new products from those of our competitors; delays in volume shipments of our products; market acceptance of our products instead of our customers' products; and availability of adequate quantity and configurations of various types of memory products. in the past, we have experienced delays in the development and adoption of new products and have been unable to successfully manage product transitions from older to newer products resulting in obsolete inventory. to be successful, we must also enter new markets or develop new uses for our future or existing products. we cannot accurately predict if our current or existing products or technologies will be successful in the new opportunities or markets that we identify for them or that we will compete successfully in any new markets we may enter. for example, we have developed products and other technology in order for certain general-purpose computing operations to be performed on a gpu rather than a cpu. this general purpose computing, which is often referred to as gp computing, was a new use for the gpu which had been entirely used for graphics rendering. during fiscal year 2008, we introduced our nvidia tesla family of products, which was our entry into the high-performance computing industry, a new market for us. we also offer our cuda software development solution, which is a c language programming environment for gpus, that allows parallel computing on the gpu by using standard c language to create programs that process large quantities of data in parallel. some of our competitors, including intel, are now developing their own solutions for the discrete graphics and computing markets. our failure to successfully develop, introduce or achieve market acceptance for new gpus, other products or other technologies or to enter into new markets or identify new uses for existing or future products, could result in rapidly declining average selling prices, reduced demand for our products or loss of market share any of which could cause our revenue, gross margin and overall financial results to suffer. if we are unable to achieve design wins, our products may not be adopted by our target markets or customers either of which could negatively impact our financial results. the success of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to develop new competitive products for our target markets and customers. we believe achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen for hardware components or subassemblies designed by oems, odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers, is an integral part of our future success. our oem, odm, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers' customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles or in connection with trade shows. accordingly, when our customers are making their design decisions, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products in order to be included in our customers' new system configurations. this requires that we: anticipate the features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; price our products competitively; and introduce products to the market within our customers' limited design cycles. if oems, odms, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their systems until at least the next design configuration. therefore, we endeavor to develop close relationships with our oems and odms, in an attempt to better anticipate and address customer needs in new products so that we will achieve design wins. 20 our ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and be compliant with evolving industry standards. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers like amd, intel and microsoft corporation, or microsoft. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, we may not be designed into our customers' product designs. however, to be compliant with changes to industry standards, we may have to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products which could negatively impact our gross margin or operating results. if we are unable to achieve new design wins for existing or new customers, we may lose market share and our operating results would be negatively impacted. we may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating results. if new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our operating expenses would increase. we had 3,772 full-time employees engaged in research and development as of january 25, 2009, compared to 3,255 employees as of january 27, 2008 and 2,668 employees as of january 28, 2007, respectively. research and development expenditures were $855.9 million, $691.6 million and $553.5 million, for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. research and development expenses included stock-based compensation expense of $98.0 million, $76.6 million and $70.1 million for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. if we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could further decline. research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenue which could negatively impact our financial results. in order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development. we are dependent on key employees and the loss of any of these employees could negatively impact our business. our future success and ability to compete is substantially dependent on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified key personnel. the market for key employees in the semiconductor industry can be competitive. none of our key employees is bound by an employment agreement, meaning our relationships with all of our key employees are at will. the loss of the services of any of our other key employees without an adequate replacement or our inability to hire new employees as needed could delay our product development efforts, harm our ability to sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business. in september 2008, we reduced our global workforce by approximately 6.5% as part of our efforts to allow continued investment in strategic growth areas. this reduction in our workforce may impair our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees of our workforce as a result of a perceived risk of future workforce reductions. employees, whether or not directly affected by the reduction, may also seek future employment with our business partners, customers or competitors. in addition, we rely on stock-based awards as one means for recruiting, motivating and retaining highly skilled talent. if the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. the significant decline in the trading price of our common stock has resulted in the exercise price of a significant portion of our outstanding options to significantly exceed the current trading price of our common stock, thus lessening the effectiveness of these stock-based awards. we may not continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel which would harm our business. we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. we have acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products and business. we may enter into future acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, in order to complement or expand our current businesses or enter into a new business market. negotiations associated with an acquisition or strategic investment could divert management's attention and other company resources. any of the following risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products, our ability to sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results: difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business; difficulty in operating in a new or multiple new locations; disruption of our ongoing businesses or the ongoing business of the company we invest in or acquire; difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; disruption of or delays in ongoing research and development efforts; diversion of capital and other resources; assumption of liabilities; diversion of resources and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or investments; difficulties in entering into new markets in which we have limited or no experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger positions; and impairment of relationships with employees and customers, or the loss of any of our key employees or customers our target's key employees or customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. 21 in addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, the issuance of convertible debt securities or a combination of cash, convertible debt and common stock. if we make an investment in cash or use cash to pay for all or a portion of an acquisition, our cash reserves would be reduced which could negatively impact the growth of our business or our ability to develop new products. however, if we pay the consideration with shares of common stock, or convertible debentures, the holdings of our existing stockholders would be diluted. the significant decline in the trading price of our common stock would make the dilution to our stockholders more extreme and could negatively impact our ability to pay the consideration with shares of common stock or convertible debentures. we cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future strategic investments or acquisitions, or the effect that any such investments or acquisitions might have on our operations or financial results. we are exposed to credit risk, fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates. we account for our investment instruments in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 115, or sfas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities . all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale under sfas no. 115. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in securities market value due to changes in interest rates. future declines in the market values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. however, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in our consolidated statements of operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other-than-temporary. at january 25, 2009 and january 27, 2008, we had $1.26 billion and $1.81 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. given the global nature of our business, we have invested both domestically and internationally. all of our investments are denominated in united states dollars. we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset-backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. as of january 25, 2009, we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. as of january 25, 2009, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 71% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 17% of our total investment portfolio. the current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. for instance, we recorded other than temporary impairment charges of $9.9 million during fiscal year 2009. these charges include $5.6 million related to what we believe is an other than temporary impairment of our investment in the money market funds held by the reserve international liquidity fund, ltd., or international reserve fund; $2.5 million related to a decline in the value of publicly traded equity securities and $1.8 million related to debt securities held by us that were issued by companies that have filed for bankruptcy as of january 25, 2009. please refer to note 17 of these notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this form 10-k for further details. subsequent to year-end, on january 30, 2009, we received $84.4 million from the international reserve fund. this was our portion of a payout of approximately 65% of the total assets of the fund. each shareholder's percentage of this distribution was determined by dividing the shareholder's total unfunded redeemed shares by the aggregate unfunded redeemed shares of the fund, which was then used to calculate the shareholder's pro rata portion of this distribution. we expect to receive the proceeds of our remaining investment in the international reserve fund, excluding the $5.6 million that we have recorded as an other than temporary impairment, by no later than october 2009, when all of the underlying securities held by the international reserve fund are scheduled to have matured. however, redemptions from the international reserve fund are currently subject to pending litigation, which could cause further delay in receipt of our funds. in addition, we may determine that further impairment of our investment in the international reserve fund may be necessary. 22 risks related to our partners and customers we depend on foundries to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our business. we do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing corporation, or tsmc, to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their state-of-the-art fabrication equipment and techniques. the foundries, which have limited capacity, also manufacture products for other semiconductor companies, including some of our competitors. since we do not have long-term commitment contracts with any of these foundries, they do not have an obligation to provide us with any minimum quantity of product at any time or at any set price, except as may be provided in a specific purchase order. most of our products are only manufactured by one foundry at a time. in times of high demand, the foundries could choose to prioritize their capacity for other companies, reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, or increase the prices that they charge us. if we are unable to meet customer demand due to reduced or eliminated deliveries or have to increase the prices of our products, we could lose sales to customers, which would negatively impact our revenue and our reputation. because the lead-time needed to establish a strategic relationship with a new manufacturing partner could be several quarters, we do not have an alternative source of supply for our products. in addition, the time and effort to qualify a new foundry could result in additional expense, diversion of resources, or lost sales, any of which would negatively impact our financial results. we believe that long-term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with the third-party manufacturers we use to ensure adequate product supply and competitive pricing to respond to customer demand. failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products could negatively impact our financial results and damage our reputation. manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the manufacturer. low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. we do not know a yield problem exists until our design is manufactured. when a yield issue is identified, the product is analyzed and tested to determine the cause. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process. resolution of yield problems requires cooperation by, and communication between, us and the manufacturer. because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry capacity, decreases in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. lower than expected yields could potentially harm customer relationships, our reputation and our financial results. we are dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, which reduces our control over the delivery schedule, product quantity or product quality. our products are assembled, tested and packaged by independent subcontractors, such as advanced semiconductor engineering, inc., amkor technology, jsi logistics, ltd., king yuan electronics co., siliconware precision industries co. ltd., and chippac. as a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules, product quantity, or product quality. all of these subcontractors assemble, test and package products for other companies, including some of our competitors. since we do not have long-term agreements with our subcontractors, when demand for subcontractors to assemble, test or package products is high, our subcontractors may decide to prioritize the orders of other customers over our orders. since the time required to qualify a different subcontractor to assemble, test or package our products can be lengthy, if we have to find a replacement subcontractor we could experience significant delays in shipments of our products, product shortages, a decrease in the quality of our products, or an increase in product cost. any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture, assembly or testing of our products, which could cause our gross margin and revenue to decline. failure to transition to new manufacturing process technologies could adversely affect our operating results and gross margin. we use the most advanced manufacturing process technology appropriate for our products that is available from our third-party foundries. as a result, we continuously evaluate the benefits of migrating our products to smaller geometry process technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. we believe this strategy will help us remain competitive. our current product families are manufactured using 0.15 micron, 0.14 micron, 0.13 micron, 0.11 micron, 90 nanometer, 65 nanometer and 55 nanometer process technologies. manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development, which could negatively impact our operating expenses and gross margin. 23 we have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes in the past and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our new products to smaller geometry processes. moreover, we are dependent on our third-party manufacturers to invest sufficient funds in new manufacturing techniques in order to have ample capacity for all of their customers and to develop the techniques in a timely manner. our product cycles may also depend on our third-party manufacturers migrating to smaller geometry processes successfully and in time for us to meet our customer demands. some of our competitors own their manufacturing facilities and may be able to move to a new state of the art manufacturing process more quickly or more successfully than our manufacturing partners. for example, intel has released a 45 nanometer chip for desktop computers which it is manufacturing in its foundries. in addition, in october 2008, amd and the advanced technology investment company, a technology investment company backed by the government of abu dhabi, announced the establishment of a u.s. headquartered semiconductor manufacturing company that will manufacture amd's advance processors. if our suppliers fall behind our competitors in manufacturing processes, the development and customer demand for our products and the use of our products could be negatively impacted. if we are forced to use larger geometric processes in manufacturing a product than our competition, our gross margin may be reduced. the inability by us or our third-party manufacturers to effectively and efficiently transition to new manufacturing process technologies may adversely affect our operating results and our gross margin. we rely on third-party vendors to supply software development tools to us for the development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools necessary to develop or enhance new or existing products. we rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements. to bring new products or product enhancements to market in a timely manner, or at all, we need software development tools that are sophisticated enough or technologically advanced enough to complete our design, simulations and verifications. in the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. in the future, the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. unavailability of software development tools may result in our missing design cycles or losing design wins, either of which could result in a loss of market share or negatively impact our operating results. because of the importance of software development tools to the development and enhancement of our products, a critical component of our product development efforts is our partnerships with leaders in the computer-aided design industry, including cadence design systems, inc. and synopsys, inc. we have invested significant resources to develop relationships with these industry leaders and have often assisted them in the definition of their new products. we believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3d graphics, communications and networking segments and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. if these relationships are not successful, we may be unable to develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner, which could result in a loss of market share, a decrease in revenue or negatively impact our operating results. we sell our products to a small number of customers and our business could suffer if we lose any of these customers. we have a limited number of customers and our sales are highly concentrated. for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, aggregate sales to customers in excess of 10% of our total revenue accounted for approximately 11% of total revenue from one customer and approximately 10% and 12% of our total revenue from another customer, respectively. although a small number of our other customers represent the majority of our revenue, their end customers include a large number of original equipment manufacturers, or oems, and system integrators throughout the world who, in many cases, specify the graphics supplier. our sales process involves achieving key design wins with leading pc, oems and major system builders and supporting the product design into high volume production with key contract equipment manufacturers, or cems, original design manufacturers, or odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. these design wins in turn influence the retail and system builder channel that is serviced by cems, odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. our distribution strategy is to work with a small number of leading independent cems, odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers, and distributors, each of which has relationships with a broad range of system builders and leading pc oems. if we were to lose sales to our pc oems, cems, odms, add-in board manufacturers and motherboard manufacturers and were unable to replace the lost sales with sales to different customers, if they were to significantly reduce the number of products they order from us, or if we were unable to collect accounts receivable from them, our revenue may not reach or exceed the expected level in any period, which could harm our financial condition and our results of operations. 24 any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, including from foreign customers, could harm our operating results and financial condition. our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers' businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. accounts receivable from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total accounts receivable aggregated approximately 38% of our accounts receivable balance from three customers at january 25, 2009 and approximately 12% of our accounts receivable balance from one customer at january 27, 2008. difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. these difficulties are heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. we continue to work directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts receivable from them. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. this allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, and we may be required to pay higher credit insurance premiums, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. in the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results. risks related to regulatory, legal, our common stock and other matters we are subject to litigation arising from alleged defects in our previous generation mcp and gpu products, which if determined adversely to us, could harm our business. during the second fiscal quarter of 2009, we recorded a $196.0 million charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation mcp and gpu products used in notebook systems. the previous generation mcp and gpu products that are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. certain notebook configurations of these mcp and gpu products are failing in the field at higher than normal rates. while we have not been able to determine a root cause for these failures, testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing factors. we continue to engage in discussions with our supply chain regarding reimbursement to us for some or all of the costs we have incurred and may incur in the future relating to the weak material set. we also continue to seek to access our insurance coverage, which provided us with $8 million in related reimbursement during fiscal year 2009. however, there can be no assurance that we will recover any additional reimbursement. we continue to not see any abnormal failure rates in any systems using nvidia products other than certain notebook configurations. however, we are continuing to test and otherwise investigate other products. there can be no assurance that we will not discover defects in other mcp or gpu products. in september, october and november 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted mcp and gpu products. such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from this litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. the ongoing civil actions or any new actions relating to the market for gpus could adversely affect our business. in november 2006, we received a subpoena from the san francisco office of the antitrust division of the united states department of justice, or doj, in connection with the doj's investigation into potential antitrust violations related to gpus and cards. in october 2008, the doj formally notified us that the doj investigation had been closed. no specific allegations were made against nvidia during the investigation. several putative civil complaints were filed against us by direct and indirect purchasers of gpus, asserting federal antitrust claims based on alleged price fixing, market allocation, and other alleged anti-competitive agreements between us and ati technologies, ulc., or ati, and advanced micro devices, inc., or amd, as a result of its acquisition of ati. the indirect purchasers' consolidated amended complaint also asserts a variety of state law antitrust, unfair competition and consumer protection claims on the same allegations, as well as a common law claim for unjust enrichment. 25 in september 2008, we executed a settlement agreement, or the agreement, in connection with the claims of the certified class of direct purchaser plaintiffs. the agreement is subject to court approval and, if approved, would dispose of all claims and appeals raised by the certified class in the complaints against nvidia. in addition, in september 2008, we reached a settlement agreement with the remaining individual indirect purchaser plaintiffs that provides for a dismissal of all claims and appeals related to the complaints raised by the individual indirect purchaser plaintiffs. this settlement is not subject to the approval of the court. while we expect the courts to approve the settlement agreement with the direct purchasers, there can be no assurance that it will approved. if the settlement agreement is not approved we may be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed on us that could harm our business. in addition, additional parties may bring claims against us relating to the potential antitrust violations related to gpus and cards. if additional claims are brought against us, such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from this litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. the matters relating to the board of director's review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements have resulted in litigation, which could harm our financial results. in august 2006, we announced that the audit committee of our board, with the assistance of outside legal counsel, was conducting a review of our stock option practices covering the time from our initial public offering in 1999, our fiscal year 2000, through june 2006. the audit committee reached the conclusion that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock option grants in certain prior periods. as a result, we recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, related to stock option grants. ten derivative complaints were filed in state and federal court pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. in september 2008, we entered into memoranda of understanding regarding the settlement of the stockholder derivative lawsuits. in november 2008, the definitive settlement agreements were concurrently filed in the chancery court of delaware and the united states district court northern district of california and are subject to approval by both such courts. the settlement agreements do not contain any admission of wrongdoing or fault on the part of nvidia, our board of directors or executive officers. while we expect the courts to approve the settlement agreements, there can be no assurance that they will approved. if the settlement agreements are not approved we may be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed on us that could harm our business. we are a party to other litigation, including patent litigation, which, if determined adversely to us, could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. we are a party to other litigation as both a defendant and as a plaintiff. for example, we are engaged in litigation with intel corporation, rambus corporation and with various parties related to our acquisition of 3dfx in 2001. please refer to note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this form 10-k for further detail on these lawsuits. there can be no assurance that any litigation to which we are a party will be resolved in our favor. any claim that is successfully decided against us may cause us to pay substantial damages, including punitive damages, and other related fees. regardless of whether lawsuits are resolved in our favor or if we are the plaintiff or the defendant in the litigation, any lawsuits to which we are a party will likely be expensive and time consuming to defend or resolve. such lawsuits could also harm our relationships with existing customers and result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. litigation to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights or to enforce our intellectual property rights and the outcome of such litigation could result in substantial costs to us. we expect that as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases and as competition intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims and lawsuits may increase. we may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us or by our customers that we have agreed to indemnify them for certain claims of infringement. an unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. in addition, in the future, we may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property; enforce our patents; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. if we have to initiate litigation in order to protect our intellectual property, our operating expenses may increase which could negatively impact our operating results. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. if infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third parties' patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnified customers may have to seek a license to the third parties' patent or other intellectual property rights. however, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. if we or one of our indemnified customers is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. we may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. furthermore, the indemnification of a customer may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. 26 our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. we have numerous patents issued, allowed and pending in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. we also rely on international treaties, organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as: the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations in particular countries and regions; the location in which our products are manufactured; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. in addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. the enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. government investigations and inquiries from regulatory agencies could lead to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties and could result in litigation against us. in the past, we have been subject to government investigations and inquiries from regulatory agencies such as the doj and the sec. we may be subject to government investigations and receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future, which may lead to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties. in addition, litigation has often been brought against a company in connection with the announcement of a government investigation or inquiry from a regulatory agency. for example, following the announcement of the doj investigation, several putative civil complaints were filed against us. in addition, following our audit committee's investigation and the sec's investigation concerning our historical stock option granting practices, ten derivative complaints were filed in state and federal court pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. please refer to note 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this form 10-k for further information regarding these lawsuits. such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. we are subject to the risks of owning real property. in fiscal year 2009, we used approximately $183.8 million of our cash to purchase real property in santa clara, california that includes approximately 25 acres of land and ten commercial buildings. we also own real property in china and india. we have limited experience in the ownership and management of real property and are subject to the risks of owning real property, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors; the risk of loss if we decide to sell and are not able to recover all capitalized costs; increased cash commitments for the possible construction of a campus; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements; increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property or both; possible disputes with third parties, such as neighboring owners or others, related to the buildings or the property or both; and the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and or other natural disasters. 27 expensing employee equity compensation adversely affects our operating results and could also adversely affect our competitive position. since inception, we have used equity through our stock option plans and our employee stock purchase program as a fundamental component of our compensation packages. we believe that these programs directly motivate our employees and, through the use of vesting, encourage our employees to remain with us. in december 2004, the fasb issued statement of financial accounting standards no. 123(r), or sfas no. 123(r) , share-based payment, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all stock-based compensation payments. sfas no. 123(r) requires that we record compensation expense for stock options and our employee stock purchase plan using the fair value of those awards. stock-based compensation expense resulting from our compliance with sfas no. 123(r), was $162.7 million, $133.4 million and $116.7 million for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which negatively impacted our operating results. additionally, on february 11, 2009, we announced that our board of directors approved a cash tender offer for certain employee stock options. the tender offer commenced on february 11, 2009 and expired at 12:00 midnight (pacific time) on march 11, 2009. as of january 25, 2009, there were approximately 33.1 million options eligible to participate in the tender offer. if all these options were tendered and accepted in the offer, the aggregate cash purchase price for these options would be approximately $92.0 million. as a result of the tender offer, we may incur a non-recurring charge of up to approximately $150.0 million if all of the unvested eligible options are tendered. this charge would be reflected in our financial results for the first fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2010 and represents stock-based compensation expense, consisting of the remaining unamortized stock-based compensation expense associated with the unvested portion of the eligible options tendered in the offer, stock-based compensation expense resulting from amounts paid in excess of the fair value of the underlying options, if any, plus associated payroll taxes and professional fees. we are currently tallying information on the number of options tendered under the offer to determine the actual aggregate cash to be paid in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible options and the non-recurring charge to be incurred pertaining to the unvested eligible options that have been tendered. we believe that sfas no. 123(r) will continue to negatively impact our operating results. to the extent that sfas no. 123(r) makes it more expensive to grant stock options or to continue to have an employee stock purchase program, we may decide to incur increased cash compensation costs. in addition, actions that we may take to reduce stock-based compensation expense that may be more severe than any actions our competitors may implement and may make it difficult to attract retain and motivate employees, which could adversely affect our competitive position as well as our business and operating results. we may be required to record a charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating results. under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states, we review our amortizable intangible assets and goodwill for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable assets may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry or in any of our business units. for example, during the twelve months ended january 25, 2009, our market capitalization declined from approximately $14 billion to approximately $4 billion. estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. however, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. for example, if one of our business units does not meet its near-term and longer-term forecasts, the goodwill assigned to the business unit could be impaired. we may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations. our stock price continues to be volatile and investors may suffer losses. our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between our actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by us and our competitors, or uncertainty about current global economic conditions. the stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. for example, following our announcement in july 2008 that we would take a charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated costs and expenses arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation mcp and gpu products and that we were revising financial guidance for our second fiscal quarter of 2009, the trading price of our common stock declined. in september, october and november 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us relating to this announcement. please refer to note 12 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this form 10-k for further information regarding these lawsuits. due to changes in the potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. 28 our operating results may be adversely affected if we are subject to unexpected tax liabilities. we are subject to taxation by a number of taxing authorities both in the united states and throughout the world. tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for our income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, any of the below could cause our effective tax rate to be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the united states or abroad or the issuance of new interpretative accounting guidance related to uncertain transactions and calculations where the tax treatment was previously uncertain; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of any of the above, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws or changes in the interpretation of tax laws. our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities. we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. for example, we are subject to the european union directive on restriction of hazardous substances directive, or rohs directive, that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead, and other hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment in the market in the european union. we could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with the european union directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment, or weee. the weee directs members of the european union to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electric and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and environmentally responsible disposal of certain products sold into the market after august 15, 2005. it is possible that unanticipated supply shortages, delays or excess non-compliant inventory may occur as a result of the rohs directive, weee, and other domestic or international environmental regulations. failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences including costs, fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities and could impact our ability to conduct business in the countries or states that have adopted these types of regulations. while we believe that we have adequate internal control over financial reporting, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm determines that we do not, our reputation may be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to audit, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. however, the manner in which companies and their independent public accounting firms apply these requirements and test companies' internal controls remains subject to some judgment. to date, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, increased expense and to devote additional management resources to section 404 compliance. despite our efforts, if we identify a material weakness in our internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate that material weakness in a timely manner, or that we will be able to maintain all of the controls necessary to determine that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. 29 changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported results of operations . we prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states. these principles are constantly subject to review and interpretation by the sec and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. a change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of our board to create and issue preferred stock without prior stockholder approval; the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; a classified board; and advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investment and interest rate risk as of january 25, 2009 and january 27, 2008, we had $1.26 billion and $1.81 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset-backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. as of january 25, 2009, we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. our investments are denominated in united states dollars. we account for our investment instruments in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 115, or sfas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities . all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale under sfas no. 115. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in securities market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in our consolidated statements of operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other-than-temporary. these securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders' equity, net of tax. as of january 25, 2009, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair market values for these investments of approximately $4.4 million. the current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact our treasury operations. other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. the current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. for instance, we recorded other than temporary impairment charges of $9.9 million during fiscal year 2009. these charges include $5.6 million related to what we believe is an other than temporary impairment of our investment in the money market funds held by the reserve international liquidity fund, ltd., or international reserve fund; $2.5 million related to a decline in the value of publicly traded equity securities and $1.8 million related to debt securities held by us that were issued by companies that have filed for bankruptcy as of january 25, 2009. please refer to note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this form 10-k for further details. as of january 25, 2009, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 71% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 17% of our total investment portfolio. substantially all of our investments are with a/a2 or better rated securities with the substantial majority of the securities rated aa-/aa3 or better. if the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2%-5%, it would result in changes in fair market values for these investments by approximately $25-$63 million. exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other income (expense), net in our consolidated financial statements and to date have not been significant. the impact of foreign currency transaction loss included in determining net income (loss) for fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $2.0 million, $1.7 million and $0.5 million, respectively. currently, sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. we may enter into certain transactions such as forward contracts which are designed to reduce the future potential impact resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. there were no forward exchange contracts outstanding at january 25, 2009. 61risk factors in evaluating nvidia and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. additionally, any one of the following risks could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. risks related to our business, industry and partners we depend on foundries to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our business. we do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing corporation, or tsmc, to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. a substantial portion of our wafers are supplied by tsmc. the foundries, which have limited capacity, also manufacture products for other semiconductor companies, including some of our competitors. since we do not have long-term commitment contracts with any of these foundries, they do not have an obligation to provide us with any minimum quantity of product at any time or at any set price, except as may be provided in a specific purchase order. most of our products are only manufactured by one foundry at a time. in times of high demand, the foundries could choose to prioritize their capacity for other companies, reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, or increase the prices that they charge us. if we are unable to meet customer demand due to reduced or eliminated deliveries or have to increase the prices of our products, we could lose sales to customers, which would negatively impact our revenue and our reputation. for example, revenue during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 was somewhat limited by supply constraints related to 40nm products. these supply constraints were driven by limited 40nm wafer foundry capacity as well as challenges related to 40nm process manufacturing yields. as a result, we have been forced to allocate our available 40nm product supply among our customers. we expect such supply constraints could have a further limiting impact on our revenue for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. because the lead-time needed to establish a strategic relationship with a new manufacturing partner and achieve initial production could be over a year, we do not have an alternative source of supply for our products. in addition, the time and effort to qualify a new foundry would result in additional expense, diversion of resources, and could result in lost sales, any of which would negatively impact our financial results. we believe that long-term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with the third-party manufacturers we use to ensure adequate product supply and competitive pricing to respond to customer demand. if our third-party foundries are not able to transition to new manufacturing process technologies or develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies our operating results and gross margin could be adversely affected. we use the most advanced manufacturing process technology appropriate for our products that is available from our third-party foundries. as a result, we continuously evaluate the benefits of migrating our products to smaller geometry process technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. we believe this strategy will help us remain competitive. our current product families are manufactured using 0.15 micron, 0.14 micron, 0.13 micron, 0.11 micron, 90 nanometer, 65 nanometer, 55 nanometer and 40 nanometer process technologies. manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development, which could negatively impact our operating expenses and gross margin. we have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes in the past and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our new products to smaller geometry processes. moreover, we are dependent on our third-party manufacturers to invest sufficient funds in new manufacturing processes in order to have ample capacity for all of their customers and to develop the processes in a timely manner. our product cycles may also depend on our third-party manufacturers migrating to smaller geometry processes successfully and in time for us to meet our customer demands. some of our competitors own their manufacturing facilities and may be able to move to a new state of the art manufacturing process more quickly or more successfully than our manufacturing partners. if our suppliers fall behind our competitors in manufacturing processes, the development and customer demand for our products and the use of our products could be negatively impacted. if we are forced to use larger geometric processes in manufacturing a product than our competition, our gross margin may be reduced. the inability by us or our third-party manufacturers to effectively and efficiently transition to new manufacturing process technologies may adversely affect our operating results and our gross margin. 12 we cannot be certain that our third-party foundries will be able to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies needed to manufacturer our products profitably or on a timely basis or that our competitors (including those that own their own manufacturing facilities) will not develop such high quality, leading-edge process technologies earlier. if our third party-foundries experience manufacturing inefficiencies, we may fail to achieve acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays. if our third-party foundries fall behind our competitors (including those that own their own manufacturing facilities), the development and customer demand for our products and the use of our products could be negatively impacted. additionally, we cannot be certain that our third-party foundries will manufacturer our products at a price that is competitive to what our competitors pay. if our third-party foundries do not charge us a competitive price, our operating results and gross margin will be negatively impacted. failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products could negatively impact our financial results and damage our reputation. manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the manufacturer. low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. we do not know a yield problem exists until our design is manufactured. when a yield issue is identified, the product is analyzed and tested to determine the cause. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process. resolution of yield problems requires cooperation by, and communication between, us and the manufacturer. because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry capacity, decreases in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. lower than expected yields could potentially harm customer relationships, our reputation and our financial results. global economic conditions may adversely affect our business and financial results. our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a continuing risk to our business as consumers and businesses have postponed spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which have reduced the demand for our products. other factors that could depress demand for our products in the future include conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, expectations for inflation, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer and business spending behavior. these and other economic factors have reduced demand for our products and could further harm our business, financial condition and operating results. the financial turmoil that affected the banking system and financial markets and the increased possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of business resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact our treasury operations. other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. our business is cyclical in nature and has experienced severe downturns that have, and may in the future, materially adversely affect our business and financial results. our business is directly affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry has been adversely affected by many factors, including the recent global downturn, ongoing efforts by our customers to reduce their spending, diminished product demand, increased inventory levels, lower average selling prices, uncertainty regarding long-term growth rates and underlying financial health and increased competition. these factors, could, among other things, limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue and in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if our actions to reduce our operating expenses to sufficiently offset these factors during this downturn are unsuccessful, our operating results will suffer. 13 our failure to estimate customer demand properly could adversely affect our financial results. we manufacture our products based on forecasts of customer demand in order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers. as a result, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur or may build inventory anticipating demand for a product that does not materialize. in forecasting demand, we make multiple assumptions any of which may prove to be incorrect. situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include: changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in the semiconductor industry and/or overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market, expectations for inflation, and energy prices; if there were a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements; if we fail to estimate customer demand properly for our older products as our newer products are introduced; or if our competition were to take unexpected competitive pricing actions. any inability to sell products to which we have devoted resources could harm our business. in addition, cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margin and restrict our ability to fund operations. additionally, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. we could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding inventory write-downs and/or a reduction in average selling prices if growth slows or does not materialize, or if we incorrectly forecast product demand, which could negatively impact our financial results. conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our third party manufacturing partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production for us meaning that we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill our customers' orders on a timely basis. even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost effective or timely manner. inability to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, could damage our customer relationships, result in lost revenue, cause a loss in market share, impact our customer relationships or damage our reputation, any of which could adversely impact our business. because our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, our failure to forecast changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our gross margin. we are focused on improving our gross margin. our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, including: the mix of our products sold; average selling prices; introduction of new products; product transitions; sales discounts; unexpected pricing actions by our competitors; the cost of product components; and the yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our products. if we do not correctly forecast the impact of any of the relevant factors on our business, there may not be any actions we can take or we may not be able to take any possible actions in time to counteract any negative impact on our gross margin. in addition, if we are unable to meet our gross margin target for any period or the target set by analysts, the trading price of our common stock may decline. 14 our revenue may fluctuate while our operating expenses are relatively fixed, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. demand for many of our revenue components fluctuates and is difficult to predict, and our operating expenses are relatively fixed and largely independent of revenue. therefore, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and profits or losses in any particular period. our operating expenses, which are comprised of research and development expenses, sales, general and administrative expenses and restructuring charges represented 38%, 36% and 25% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. since we often recognize a substantial portion of our revenue in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to adjust our operating expenses in a timely manner in response to any unanticipated revenue shortfalls in any quarter. further, some of our operating expenses, like stock-based compensation expense can only be adjusted over a longer period of time and cannot be reduced during a quarter. if we are unable to reduce operating expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls, our financial results will be negatively impacted. any one or more of the risks discussed in this annual report on form 10-k or other factors could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income. accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. similarly, the results of any quarterly or full fiscal year period are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for a subsequent quarter or a full fiscal year. as a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. we believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may continue to be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations. if we are unable to sell our mcp products for use with certain intel processors, we may not be able to successfully compete and our business would be negatively impacted. our mcp products are currently used with both intel and amd processors. our revenue from mcp products represented 26% of our total revenue for fiscal year 2010. in february 2009, intel filed suit against us related to a patent license agreement that we signed with intel in 2004. intel seeks an order from the court declaring that the license does not extend to a new intel processor architecture and enjoining us from stating that we have licensing rights for this architecture. if intel successfully obtains such a court order, we could be unable to sell our mcp products for use with these intel processors and our competitive position and financial results would be adversely impacted. in addition, in order to continue to sell mcp products for use with these intel processors we could be required to negotiate a new license agreement with intel and we may not be able to do so on reasonable terms, if at all. in march 2009, we asserted counterclaims against intel pursuant to which we seek an order declaring that we have the right to sell certain chipset products with intel's processors under the chipset license agreement, and enjoining intel from interfering with our licensing rights. we are also seeking a finding that intel has materially breached its obligations under the chipset license agreement, and are requesting various remedies for that breach, including termination of intel's cross licensing rights. notwithstanding our belief that the chipset license agreement extends to a component of the new intel processor architecture referred to as direct media interface, or dmi, we currently have no intentions of building a dmi-based chipset while this dispute remains unresolved. if we are unable to compete in the markets for our products, our financial results could be adversely impacted. the market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, new product introductions, evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. we believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, software support, conformity to industry standard application programming interface, or apis, manufacturing capabilities, price of processors, and total system costs. we believe that our ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers will demand and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of quality and at competitive prices. we expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. in addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share. we believe other factors impacting our ability to compete are: product performance; product bundling by competitors with multiple product lines; breadth and frequency of product offerings; access to customers and distribution channels; backward-forward software support; conformity to industry standard application programming interfaces; and manufacturing capabilities. a significant source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide gpus and mobile and consumer products. some of our competitors may have greater marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do and may be more able to adapt to customer or technological changes. 15 our current competitors include the following: suppliers of gpus, including mcps that incorporate 3d graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as amd, intel, matrox electronics systems ltd., sis, and via; and suppliers of system-on-a-chip products that support netbooks, pnds, pmps, pdas, cellular phones, handheld devices or embedded devices such as amd, broadcom, freescale semiconductor inc., fujitsu limited, imagination technologies ltd., arm holdings plc, marvell technology group ltd, or marvell, nec corporation, qualcomm incorporated, renesas technology, samsung, seiko-epson, st microelectronics, texas instruments incorporated, and toshiba america, inc.; if and to the extent we offer products in new markets, we may face competition from some of our existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. for example, in the case of our cpb, our tegra products primarily compete in tablets, smartbooks, smartphones and other handheld consumer devices. we cannot accurately predict if we will compete successfully in any of the new markets we may enter. if we are unable to compete in our current or new markets, demand for our products could decrease which could cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to suffer . we are dependent on the personal computer market and its rate of growth in the future may have a negative impact on our business. we derive and expect to continue to derive the majority of our revenue from the sale or license of products for use in the desktop personal computer, or pc, and notebook pc markets, including professional workstations. a reduction in sales of pcs, or a reduction in the growth rate of pc sales, may reduce demand for our products. these changes in demand could be large and sudden. during fiscal year 2010, sales of our desktop gpu products increased by approximately 1% compared to fiscal year 2009. the increase in the sale of desktop gpu products was primarily driven by unit volume growth in the high-end and mainstream segments as market demand appeared to begin to recover from recessionary conditions that began in the prior year. however, sales of our notebook gpu products decreased by approximately 31% compared to fiscal year 2009. this decline was driven primarily by a combination of the decline in unit demand and in average selling prices, or asps, due to increased competition in the marketplace. since pc manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they incorrectly forecast product transitions. in these cases, pc manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inventory from suppliers like us until their excess inventory has been absorbed, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. as intel and amd continue to pursue platform solutions, we may not be able to successfully compete and our business would be negatively impacted. we expect substantial competition from both intel's and amd's strategy of selling platform solutions, such as the success intel achieved with its centrino platform solution. amd has also announced a platform solution. additionally, intel and amd have each announced its intention to integrate a central processing unit, or cpu, and a gpu on the same chip or same package, as evidenced by amd's announcement of its fusion processor project and intel's announcement of its multichip packaged solution codenamed arrandale. if amd and intel continue to pursue platform solutions, we may not be able to successfully compete and our business would be negatively impacted. our business results could be adversely affected if the identification and development of new products or entry into or development of a new market is delayed or unsuccessful. in order to maintain or improve our financial results, we will need to continue to identify and develop new products as well as identify and enter new markets. as our gpus and other processors develop and competition increases, we anticipate that product life cycles at the high end will remain short and average selling prices will decline. in particular, average selling prices and gross margins for our gpus and other processors could decline as each product matures and as unit volume increases. as a result, we will need to introduce new products and enhancements to existing products to maintain or improve overall average selling prices, our gross margin and our financial results. we believe the success of our new product introductions will depend on many factors outlined elsewhere in these risk factors as well as the following: market demand for new products and enhancements to existing products; timely completion and introduction of new product designs and new opportunities for existing products; seamless transitions from an older product to a new product; differentiation of our new products from those of our competitors; delays in volume shipments of our products; market acceptance of our products instead of our customers' products; and availability of adequate quantity and configurations of various types of memory products. in the past, we have experienced delays in the development and adoption of new products and have been unable to successfully manage product transitions from older to newer products resulting in obsolete inventory. 16 to be successful, we must also enter new markets or develop new uses for our future or existing products. we cannot accurately predict if our current or existing products or technologies will be successful in the new opportunities or markets that we identify for them or that we will compete successfully in any new markets we may enter. for example, we have developed products and other technology in order for certain general-purpose computing operations to be performed on a gpu rather than a cpu. this general purpose computing, which is often referred to as gp computing, was a new use for the gpu which had been entirely used for graphics rendering. during fiscal year 2008, we introduced our nvidia tesla family of products, which was our entry into the high-performance computing industry, a new market for us. during fiscal year 2010, we introduced our next generation cuda gpu architecture, codenamed fermi, which we expect to be the foundation for computational gpus and enable breakthroughs in both graphics and parallel computing. some of our competitors, including intel, are now developing their own solutions for the discrete graphics and computing markets. our failure to successfully develop, introduce or achieve market acceptance for new gpus, other products or other technologies or to enter into new markets or identify new uses for existing or future products, could result in rapidly declining average selling prices, reduced demand for our products or loss of market share any of which could cause our revenue, gross margin and overall financial results to suffer. if we are unable to achieve design wins, our products may not be adopted by our target markets or customers either of which could negatively impact our financial results. the success of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to develop new competitive products for our target markets and customers. we believe achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen for hardware components or subassemblies designed by oems, odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers, is an integral part of our future success. our oem, odm, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers' customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles or in connection with trade shows. accordingly, when our customers are making their design decisions, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products in order to be included in our customers' new system configurations. this requires that we: anticipate the features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; price our products competitively; and introduce products to the market within our customers' limited design cycles. if oems, odms, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their systems until at least the next design configuration. therefore, we endeavor to develop close relationships with our oems and odms, in an attempt to better anticipate and address customer needs in new products so that we will achieve design wins. our ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and be compliant with evolving industry standards. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers like amd, intel and microsoft corporation, or microsoft. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, we may not be designed into our customers' product designs. however, to be compliant with changes to industry standards, we may have to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products which could negatively impact our gross margin or operating results. if we are unable to achieve new design wins for existing or new customers, we may lose market share and our operating results would be negatively impacted. if our products do not continue to be adopted by our target markets or if the demand for new and innovative products in our target markets decreases, our business and operating results would suffer. our success depends in part upon continued broad adoption of our processors for 3d graphics and multimedia in desktop pc, notebook pc, workstation, high-performance computing, netbooks, smartbooks, tablets, smartphones, and video game console applications. the market for processors has been characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in pricing of dynamic random-access memory devices and other changes in the total system cost of add-in boards, as well as by severe price competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. broad market acceptance is difficult to achieve and such market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition and frequent new technology and product introductions. our gpu and mcp businesses together comprised approximately 79%, 75% and 79% of our revenue for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. as such, our financial results would suffer if for any reason our current or future gpus or mcps do not continue to achieve widespread adoption by the pc market. if we are unable to complete the timely development of new products or if we were unable to successfully and cost-effectively manufacture and deliver products that meet the requirements of the desktop pc, notebook pc, workstation, high-performance computing, netbook, smartbooks, tablets, smartphones, and video game console markets, we may experience a decrease in revenue which could negatively impact our operating results. additionally, there can be no assurance that the industry will continue to demand new products with improved standards, features or performance. if our customers, oems, odms, add-in-card and motherboard manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies, do not continue to design products that require more advanced or efficient processors and/or the market does not continue to demand new products with increased performance, features, functionality or standards, sales of our products could decline and the markets for our products could shrink. decreased sales of our products for these markets could negatively impact our revenue and our financial results. 17 if our products contain significant defects our financial results could be negatively impacted, our reputation could be damaged and we could lose market share. our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. if any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. such efforts could divert our engineers' attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. in addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including our customers' costs to repair or replace products in the field. a product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, could result in the shifting of business to our competitors and could result in litigation against us. costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. for example, during fiscal year 2010, we recorded an additional net warranty charge of $95.8 million against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation mcp and gpu products used in notebook systems. this charge included an additional accrual of $164.4 million for related estimated costs, offset by reimbursements from insurance carriers of $68.6 million that we recorded against cost of revenue during fiscal year 2010. during fiscal year 2009, we recorded a net warranty charge of $189.3 million charge against cost of revenue for the purpose of supporting the product repair costs of our affected customers around the world. this charge included an accrual of $196.0 million for related estimated costs, offset by reimbursements from insurance carriers of $6.7 million that we recorded against cost of revenue during fiscal year 2009. in september, october and november 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted mcp and gpu products. please refer to the risk entitled we are subject to litigation arising from alleged defects in our previous generation mcp and gpu products, which if determined adversely to us, could harm our business for the risk associated with this litigation. we may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating results. if new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our operating expenses would increase. our engineering and technical resources include 3,940 full-time employees as of january 31, 2010 and 3,772 employees as of january 25, 2009, respectively. research and development expenditures were $908.9 million, $855.9 million and $691.6 million, for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. research and development expenses included stock-based compensation expense of $151.8 million, $98.0 million and $76.6 million for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. if we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenue which could negatively impact our financial results. in order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development. we are dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, which reduces our control over the delivery schedule, product quantity or product quality. our products are assembled, tested and packaged by independent subcontractors, such as advanced semiconductor engineering, inc., amkor technology, jsi logistics, ltd., king yuan electronics co., siliconware precision industries co. ltd., and chippac. as a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules, product quantity, or product quality. all of these subcontractors assemble, test and package products for other companies, including some of our competitors. since we do not have long-term agreements with our subcontractors, when demand for subcontractors to assemble, test or package products is high, our subcontractors may decide to prioritize the orders of other customers over our orders. since the time required to qualify a different subcontractor to assemble, test or package our products can be lengthy, if we have to find a replacement subcontractor we could experience significant delays in shipments of our products, product shortages, a decrease in the quality of our products, or an increase in product cost. any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture, assembly or testing of our products, which could cause our gross margin and revenue to decline. we rely on third-party vendors to supply software development tools to us for the development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools necessary to develop or enhance new or existing products. we rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements. to bring new products or product enhancements to market in a timely manner, or at all, we need software development tools that are sophisticated enough or technologically advanced enough to complete our design, simulations and verifications. in the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. in the future, the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. unavailability of software development tools may result in our missing design cycles or losing design wins, either of which could result in a loss of market share or negatively impact our operating results. because of the importance of software development tools to the development and enhancement of our products, a critical component of our product development efforts is our partnerships with leaders in the computer-aided design industry, including cadence design systems, inc. and synopsys, inc. we have invested significant resources to develop relationships with these industry leaders and have often assisted them in the definition of their new products. we believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3d graphics, communications and networking segments and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. if these relationships are not successful, we may be unable to develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner, which could result in a loss of market share, a decrease in revenue or negatively impact our operating results. 18 we sell our products to a small number of customers and our business could suffer if we lose any of these customers. we have a limited number of customers and our sales are highly concentrated. we recorded approximately 12% of total revenue from one customer, approximately 11% of total revenue from one customer and approximately 10% of our total revenue from another customer for fiscal year 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. although a small number of our other customers represent the majority of our revenue, their end customers include a large number of oems, and system integrators throughout the world who, in many cases, specify the graphics supplier. our sales process involves achieving key design wins with leading pc, oems and major system builders and supporting the product design into high volume production with key contract equipment manufacturers, or cems, odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. these design wins in turn influence the retail and system builder channel that is serviced by cems, odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. our distribution strategy is to work with a small number of leading independent cems, odms, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers, and distributors, each of which has relationships with a broad range of system builders and leading pc oems. if we were to lose sales to our pc oems, cems, odms, add-in board manufacturers and motherboard manufacturers and were unable to replace the lost sales with sales to different customers, if they were to significantly reduce the number of products they order from us, or if we were unable to collect accounts receivable from them, our revenue may not reach or exceed the expected level in any period, which could harm our financial condition and our results of operations. any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, including from foreign customers, could harm our operating results and financial condition. our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers' businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. we recorded approximately 20% of our accounts receivable balance from two customers at january 31, 2010 and approximately 38% of our accounts receivable balance from three customers at january 25, 2009. difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. these difficulties are heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. we continue to work directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts receivable from them. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. this allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, and we may be required to pay higher credit insurance premiums, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. in the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results. we obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to certain customers. as a result of the tightening of the credit markets, we may not be able to acquire credit insurance on the credit we extend to these customers or in amounts that we deem sufficient. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our accounts receivable, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk or avoid losses, which could harm our financial condition or operating results. we are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. we conduct our business worldwide. our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third-parties located outside of the united states and other americas. we generated 84%, 87% and 89% of our revenue for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, from sales to customers outside the united states and other americas. as of january 31, 2010, we had offices in fifteen countries outside of the united states. the manufacture, assembly, test and packaging of our products outside of the united states, operation of offices outside of the united states, and sales to customers internationally subjects us to a number of risks, including: international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; complying with a variety of foreign laws; differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices; cultural differences in the conduct of business; inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition of additional taxes and penalties; and other factors beyond our control such as terrorism, civil unrest, war and diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome and the avian flu. 19 if sales to any of our customers outside of the united states and other americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. our international operations in australia, china, finland, france, germany, hong kong, india, japan, korea, russia, singapore, sweden, switzerland, taiwan, and the united kingdom are subject to many of the above listed risks. difficulties with our international operations, including finding appropriate staffing and office space, may divert management's attention and other resources any of which could negatively impact our operating results. the economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. all of our international sales to date have been denominated in united states dollars. accordingly, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. we anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities. conditions outside the control of our independent subcontractors and manufacturers may impact their business operations and thereby adversely interrupt our manufacturing and sales processes. the economic, market, social, and political situations in countries where certain independent subcontractors and manufacturers are located are unpredictable, can be volatile, and can have a significant impact on our business because we may be unable to obtain or distribute product in a timely manner. market and political conditions, including currency fluctuation, terrorism, political strife, war, labor disruption, and other factors, including natural or man-made disasters, adverse changes in tax laws, tariff, import or export quotas, power and water shortages, or interruption in air transportation, in areas where our independent subcontractors and manufacturers are located could also have a severe negative impact on our operating capabilities. for example, because we rely heavily on tsmc to produce a significant portion of our silicon wafers, earthquakes, typhoons or other natural disasters in taiwan and asia could limit our wafer supply and thereby harm our business, financial condition, and operational results. we are dependent on key employees and the loss of any of these employees could negatively impact our business. our future success and ability to compete is substantially dependent on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified key personnel. the market for key employees in the technology industry can be competitive. none of our key employees is bound by an employment agreement, meaning our relationships with all of our key employees are at will. the loss of the services of any of our other key employees without an adequate replacement or our inability to hire new employees as needed could delay our product development efforts, harm our ability to sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business. in addition, we rely on stock-based awards as one means for recruiting, motivating and retaining highly skilled talent. if the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. we have acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products and business. we may enter into future acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, in order to complement or expand our current businesses or enter into a new business market. negotiations associated with an acquisition or strategic investment could divert management's attention and other company resources. any of the following risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products, our ability to sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results: difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business; difficulty in operating in a new or multiple new locations; disruption of our ongoing businesses or the ongoing business of the company we invest in or acquire; difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; disruption of or delays in ongoing research and development efforts; diversion of capital and other resources; assumption of liabilities; diversion of resources and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or investments; difficulties in entering into new markets in which we have limited or no experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger positions; and impairment of relationships with employees and customers, or the loss of any of our key employees or customers our target's key employees or customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. 20 in addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, the issuance of convertible debt securities or a combination of cash, convertible debt and common stock. if we make an investment in cash or use cash to pay for all or a portion of an acquisition, our cash reserves would be reduced which could negatively impact the growth of our business or our ability to develop new products. however, if we pay the consideration with shares of common stock, or convertible debentures, the holdings of our existing stockholders would be diluted. the significant decline in the trading price of our common stock would make the dilution to our stockholders more extreme and could negatively impact our ability to pay the consideration with shares of common stock or convertible debentures. we cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future strategic investments or acquisitions, or the effect that any such investments or acquisitions might have on our operations or financial results. we are exposed to credit risk, fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates. all of our cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale securities. investments in both fixed rate instruments and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in securities market value due to changes in interest rates. future declines in the market values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. at january 31, 2010 and january 25, 2009, we had $1.73 billion and $1.26 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. given the global nature of our business, we have invested both domestically and internationally. all of our investments are denominated in united states dollars. we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset-backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. as of january 31, 2010, we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. as of january 31, 2010, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 62% of our total cash equivalents and marketable securities, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 22% of our total cash equivalents and marketable securities. the financial turmoil that affected the banking system and financial markets and the increased possibility that financial institutions might consolidate or go out of business resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact our treasury operations. other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. volatility in the financial markets and economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. as of january 31, 2010, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 62% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 22% of our total investment portfolio. of the financial sector investments, over half are guaranteed by the u.s. government. substantially all of our investments are with a/a2 or better rated securities. if the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2%-5%, fair market values for these investments would decrease by approximately $27-$67 million. 21 risks related to regulatory, legal, our common stock and other matters we are subject to litigation arising from alleged defects in our previous generation mcp and gpu products, which if determined adversely to us, could harm our business. during fiscal year 2010, we recorded an additional net warranty charge of $95.8 million against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation mcp and gpu products used in notebook systems. this charge included an additional accrual of $164.4 million for related estimated costs, offset by reimbursements from insurance carriers of $68.6 million that we recorded against cost of revenue during fiscal year 2010. during fiscal year 2009, we recorded a net warranty charge of $189.3 million against cost of revenue for the purpose of supporting the product repair costs of our affected customers around the world. this charge included an accrual of $196.0 million for related estimated costs, offset by reimbursements from insurance carriers of $6.7 million that we recorded against cost of revenue during fiscal year 2009. although the number of units that we estimate will be impacted by this issue remains consistent with our initial estimates in july 2008, the overall cost of remediation and repair of impacted systems has been higher than originally anticipated. the weak die/packaging material combination is not used in any of our products that are currently in production. the previous generation mcp and gpu products that are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. certain notebook configurations of these mcp and gpu products are failing in the field at higher than normal rates. while we have not been able to determine with certainty a root cause for these failures, testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing factors. we have worked with our customers to develop and have made available for download a software driver to cause the system fan to begin operation at the powering up of the system and reduce the thermal stress on these chips. we have also recommended to our customers that they consider changing the thermal management of the products in their notebook system designs. we intend to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. we continue to seek access to our insurance coverage regarding reimbursement to us for some or all of the costs we have incurred and may incur in the future relating to the weak material set. we received $70.5 million and $8.0 million in reimbursements from insurance providers during fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. however, there can be no assurance that we will recover any additional reimbursement. we continue to not see any abnormal failure rates in any systems using nvidia products other than certain notebook configurations. however, we are continuing to test and otherwise investigate other products. there can be no assurance that we will not discover defects in other products. in september, october and november 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted mcp and gpu products. such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from this litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. we are a party to other litigation, including patent litigation, which, if determined adversely to us, could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. we are a party to other litigation as both a defendant and as a plaintiff. for example, we are engaged in litigation with intel corporation, rambus corporation and with various parties related to our acquisition of 3dfx in 2001. please refer to note 13 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further detail on these lawsuits. there can be no assurance that any litigation to which we are a party will be resolved in our favor. any claim that is successfully decided against us may cause us to pay substantial damages, including punitive damages, and other related fees. regardless of whether lawsuits are resolved in our favor or if we are the plaintiff or the defendant in the litigation, any lawsuits to which we are a party will likely be expensive and time consuming to defend or resolve. such lawsuits could also harm our relationships with existing customers and result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. 22 changes in u.s. tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially impact our business. currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the united states, and a significant portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the united states. united states income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain non-united states subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. in may 2009, president obama's administration provided details of previously announced international tax proposals that if enacted into law would have substantially reduced our ability to defer u.s. taxes on such indefinitely reinvested non-us earnings including repealing the deferral of u.s. taxation of foreign earnings, eliminating utilization of or substantially reducing our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminating various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the united states. in october 2009, the obama administration announced it no longer intended to pursue such proposals outside of a broader initiative to overhaul the corporate tax system, expected in 2010. however, in february 2010, the obama administration released its fiscal year 2011 budget with proposed modifications to international tax laws that would again substantially reduce our ability to defer u.s. taxes on indefinitely reinvested non-u.s. earnings, eliminate or substantially reduce our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminate certain tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the united states. if any of these or similar proposals are constituted into legislation in the current or future year(s), they could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. litigation to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights or to enforce our intellectual property rights and the outcome of such litigation could result in substantial costs to us. we expect that as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases and as competition intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims and lawsuits may increase. we may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us or by our customers that we have agreed to indemnify them for certain claims of infringement. an unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. in addition, in the future, we may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property; enforce our patents; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. if we have to initiate litigation in order to protect our intellectual property, our operating expenses may increase which could negatively impact our operating results. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. if infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third parties' patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnified customers may have to seek a license to the third parties' patent or other intellectual property rights. however, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. if we or one of our indemnified customers is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. we may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. furthermore, the indemnification of a customer may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. 23 our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. we have numerous patents issued, allowed and pending in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. we also rely on international treaties, organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as: the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations in particular countries and regions; the location in which our products are manufactured; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. in addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. the enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. government investigations and inquiries from regulatory agencies could lead to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties and could result in litigation against us. in the past, we have been subject to government investigations and inquiries from regulatory agencies such as the department of justice and the sec. we may be subject to government investigations and receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future, which may lead to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties. in addition, litigation has often been brought against a company in connection with the announcement of a government investigation or inquiry from a regulatory agency. such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. we are subject to the risks of owning real property. during fiscal year 2009, we purchased real property in santa clara, california that includes approximately 25 acres of land and ten commercial buildings. we also own real property in china and india. we have limited experience in the ownership and management of real property and are subject to the risks of owning real property, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with mitigating any environmental problems; adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the market in which the property is located, or other factors; the risk of loss if we decide to sell and are not able to recover all capitalized costs; increased cash commitments for the possible construction of a campus; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements; increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property or both; possible disputes with third parties, such as neighboring owners or others, related to the buildings or the property or both; and the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and or other natural disasters. 24 expensing employee equity compensation adversely affects our operating results and could also adversely affect our competitive position. since inception, we have used equity through our equity incentive plans and our employee stock purchase program as a fundamental component of our compensation packages. we believe that these programs directly motivate our employees and, through the use of vesting, encourage our employees to remain with us. we record compensation expense for stock options, restricted stock units and our employee stock purchase plan using the fair value of those awards in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in united states of america, or u.s. gaap. stock-based compensation expense was $107.1 million, $162.7 million, $133.4 million for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related to on-going vesting of equity awards, which negatively impacted our operating results. additionally, in march 2009, we completed a cash tender offer to purchase certain employee stock options. a total of 28.5 million options were tendered under the offer for an aggregate cash purchase price of $78.1 million, in exchange for the cancellation of the eligible options. as a result of the tender offer, we incurred a charge of $140.2 million consisting of the remaining unamortized stock based compensation expense associated with the unvested portion of the options tendered in the offer, stock-based compensation expense resulting from amounts paid in excess of the fair value of the underlying options, plus associated payroll taxes and professional fees. we believe that expensing employee equity compensation will continue to negatively impact our operating results. to the extent that expensing employee equity compensation makes it more expensive to grant stock options and restricted stock units or to continue to have an employee stock purchase program, we may decide to incur increased cash compensation costs. in addition, actions that we may take to reduce stock-based compensation expense that may be more severe than any actions our competitors may implement and may make it difficult to attract retain and motivate employees, which could adversely affect our competitive position as well as our business and operating results. we may be required to record a charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating results. under u.s. gaap, we review our amortizable intangible assets and goodwill for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable assets from acquisitions may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry or in any of our business units. estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. however, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. for example, if one of our business units does not meet its near-term and longer-term forecasts, the goodwill assigned to the business unit could be impaired. we may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations. our stock price continues to be volatile and investors may suffer losses. our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between our actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by us and our competitors, or uncertainty about current global economic conditions. the stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. for example, following our announcement in july 2008 that we would take a charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated costs and expenses arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation mcp and gpu products and that we were revising financial guidance for our second fiscal quarter of 2009, the trading price of our common stock declined. in september, october and november 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us relating to this announcement. please refer to note 13 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information regarding these lawsuits. due to changes in the potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. 25 our operating results may be adversely affected if we are subject to unexpected tax liabilities. we are subject to taxation by a number of taxing authorities both in the united states and throughout the world. tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for our income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, any of the below could cause our effective tax rate to be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the united states or abroad or the issuance of new interpretative accounting guidance related to uncertain transactions and calculations where the tax treatment was previously uncertain; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of any of the above, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws or changes in the interpretation of tax laws. our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities. we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. for example, we are subject to the european union directive on restriction of hazardous substances directive, or rohs directive, that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead, and other hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment in the market in the european union. we could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with the european union directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment, or weee. the weee directs members of the european union to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electric and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and environmentally responsible disposal of certain products sold into the market after august 15, 2005. it is possible that unanticipated supply shortages, delays or excess non-compliant inventory may occur as a result of the rohs directive, weee, and other domestic or international environmental regulations. failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences including costs, fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities and could impact our ability to conduct business in the countries or states that have adopted these types of regulations. while we believe that we have adequate internal control over financial reporting, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm determines that we do not, our reputation may be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to audit, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. however, the manner in which companies and their independent public accounting firms apply these requirements and test companies' internal controls remains subject to some judgment. to date, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, increased expense and to devote additional management resources to section 404 compliance. despite our efforts, if we identify a material weakness in our internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate that material weakness in a timely manner, or that we will be able to maintain all of the controls necessary to determine that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported results of operations . we prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s.gaap. these principles are constantly subject to review and interpretation by the sec and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. a change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. 26 provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of our board to create and issue preferred stock without prior stockholder approval; the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; a classified board; and advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investment and interest rate risk as of january 31, 2010 and january 25, 2009, we had $1.73 billion and $1.26 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset-backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. as of january 31, 2010, we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. our investments are denominated in united states dollars. all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in securities market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in our consolidated statements of operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other-than-temporary. these securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders' equity, net of tax. as of january 31, 2010, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair market values for these investments of approximately $8.3 million. the financial turmoil that affected the banking system and financial markets and increased the possibility that financial institutions might consolidate or go out of business resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact our treasury operations. other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. volatility in the financial markets and economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. as of january 31, 2010, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 62% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 22% of our total investment portfolio. of the financial sector investments, over half are guaranteed by the u.s. government. substantially all of our investments are with a/a2 or better rated securities. if the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2%-5%, fair market values for these investments would decline by approximately $27-$67 million. exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other income (expense), net in our consolidated financial statements and to date have not been significant. the impact of foreign currency transaction loss included in determining net income (loss) for fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $0.9 million, $2.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively. currently, sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. we may enter into certain transactions such as forward contracts which are designed to reduce the future potential impact resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. there were no forward exchange contracts outstanding at january 31, 2010. 58risk factors 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investment and interest rate risk as of january 30, 2011 and january 31, 2010, we had $2.49 billion and $1.73 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset-backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. as of january 30, 2011, we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. our investments are denominated in united states dollars. all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in securities market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in our consolidated statements of operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other-than-temporary. these securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders' equity, net of tax. as of january 30, 2011, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair values for these investments of approximately $11.7 million. the financial turmoil that affected the banking system and financial markets and increased the possibility that financial institutions might consolidate or go out of business resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact our treasury operations. other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. volatility in the financial markets and economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. as of january 30, 2011, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 51% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 34% of our total investment portfolio. of the financial sector investments, over half are guaranteed by the u.s. government. substantially all of our investments are with a/a2 or better rated securities. if the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2%-5%, the fair values of these investments would decline by approximately $37-$93 million. exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other income (expense), net in our consolidated financial statements and to date have not been significant. the impact of foreign currency transaction loss included in determining net income (loss) for fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $2.4 million, $0.9 million and $2.0 million, respectively. currently, sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. we may enter into certain transactions such as forward contracts which are designed to reduce the future potential impact resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. there were no forward exchange contracts outstanding at january 30, 2011. 52risk factors 11 risk factors in evaluating nvidia and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. additionally, any one of the following risks could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. risks related to our business, industry and partners if we are unable to compete in the markets for our products, our financial results will be adversely impacted. the market for our products is extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings, industry standards continue to evolve and others realize the market potential of mobile and consumer products and services. our current competitors include: suppliers of gpus, including chipsets that incorporate 3d graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as advanced micro devices, or amd, intel, matrox electronics systems ltd., and via technologies, inc.; 11 table of contents suppliers of system-on-chip products that support tablets, smartphones, portable media players, internet television, automotive navigation and other similar devices, such as amd, arm holdings plc, broadcom corporation, freescale semiconductor inc., fujitsu limited, imagination technologies ltd., intel, marvell technology group ltd., nec corporation, qualcomm incorporated, renesas technology corp., samsung electronics co. ltd., seiko epson corporation, st-ericsson, texas instruments incorporated and toshiba america electronic components, inc.; licensors of graphics technologies such as arm holdings plc and imagination technologies group plc and suppliers of cellular basebands such as , broadcom corporation, freescale semiconductor inc., hisilicon technologies co., ltd., intel, marvell technology group ltd., mediatek, qualcomm incorporated, renesas technology corp., samsung electronics co. ltd., spreadtrum communications co., ltd, st-ericsson and texas instruments incorporated. we expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. in addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share. furthermore, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. in addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. our ability to compete will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: continue to keep pace with technological developments; develop and introduce new products, services, technologies and enhancements on a timely basis; transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries; obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials; and succeed in significant foreign markets, such as china and india. if we are unable to compete in our current or new markets, demand for our products could decrease which could cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to suffer . if and to the extent we offer products in new markets, we may face competition from existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. we expect substantial competition from intel and amd, both of whom has a strategy of selling platform solutions, including integrating a cpu and a gpu on the same chip or same package, as evidenced by amd's announcement of its fusion processors and intel's announcement of its family of cpus codenamed sandy bridge. as intel and amd continue to pursue platform solutions and integrated cpus, our business could be negatively impacted. we depend on foundries to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our business. we do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited, or tsmc, to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. a substantial portion of our wafers are supplied by tsmc. the foundries, which have limited capacity, also manufacture products for other semiconductor companies, including some of our competitors. since we do not have long-term commitment contracts with any of these foundries, they do not have an obligation to provide us with any set pricing or minimum quantity of product at any time except as may be provided in a specific purchase order. most of our products are only manufactured by one foundry at a time. in times of high demand, the foundries could choose to prioritize their capacity for other companies, reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, or increase the prices that they charge us. if we are unable to meet customer demand due to reduced or eliminated deliveries or have to increase the prices of our products, we could lose sales to customers, which would negatively impact our revenue and our reputation. because the lead-time needed to establish a strategic relationship with a new manufacturing partner and achieve initial production could be over a year, we do not have an alternative source of supply for our products. in addition, the time and effort to qualify a new foundry would result in additional expense, diversion of resources, and could result in lost sales, any of which would negatively impact our financial results. we believe that long-term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with the third-party manufacturers we use to ensure adequate product supply and competitive pricing to respond to customer demand. 12 table of contents if our third-party foundries are not able to transition to new manufacturing process technologies or develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies our operating results and gross margin could be adversely affected. we use the most advanced manufacturing process technology appropriate for our products that is available from our third-party foundries. as a result, we continuously evaluate the benefits of migrating our products to smaller geometry process technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. we believe this strategy will help us remain competitive. our current product families are manufactured using 0.18 micron, 0.14 micron, 0.13 micron, 0.11 micron, 90 nanometer, 80 nanometer, 65 nanometer, 55 nanometer and 40 nanometer process technologies. manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development, which could negatively impact our operating expenses and gross margin. we have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes in the past and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our new products to smaller geometry processes. moreover, we are dependent on our third-party manufacturers to invest sufficient funds in new manufacturing processes in order to have ample capacity for all of their customers and to develop the processes in a timely manner. our product cycles may also depend on our third-party manufacturers migrating to smaller geometry processes successfully and in time for us to meet our customer demands. some of our competitors own their manufacturing facilities and may be able to move to a new state of the art manufacturing process more quickly or more successfully than our manufacturing partners. if our suppliers fall behind our competitors in manufacturing processes, the development and customer demand for our products and the use of our products could be negatively impacted. if we are forced to use larger geometric processes in manufacturing a product than our competition, our gross margin may be reduced. the inability by us or our third-party manufacturers to effectively and efficiently transition to new manufacturing process technologies may adversely affect our operating results and our gross margin. we cannot be certain that our third-party foundries will be able to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies needed to manufacturer our products profitably or on a timely basis or that our competitors (including those that own their own manufacturing facilities) will not develop such high quality, leading-edge process technologies earlier. if our third-party foundries experience manufacturing inefficiencies, we may fail to achieve acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays. if our third-party foundries fall behind our competitors (including those that own their own manufacturing facilities), the development and customer demand for our products and the use of our products could be negatively impacted. additionally, we cannot be certain that our third-party foundries will manufacture our products at prices that are competitive to what our competitors pay. if our third-party foundries do not charge us competitive prices, our operating results and gross margin will be negatively impacted. failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products could negatively impact our financial results and damage our reputation. manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the manufacturer. low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. we do not know a yield problem exists until our design is manufactured. when a yield issue is identified, the product is analyzed and tested to determine the cause. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process. resolution of yield problems requires cooperation by, and communication between, us and the manufacturer. because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry capacity and our recent transition to a wafer buy model where the costs of our products are based on the price per wafer versus price per functional die, decreases in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. lower than expected yields could potentially harm customer relationships, our reputation and our financial results. our business results could be adversely affected if the identification and development of new products is delayed or unsuccessful. in order to maintain or improve our financial results, we will need to continue to identify and develop new products and enhancements to our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner. the process of developing new products and services and enhancing existing products and services is highly complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technology trends could adversely affect our business. we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our new products and technologies. it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. even if we introduce new and enhanced products to the market, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance of them in a timely manner. 13 table of contents our ability to successfully develop and deliver new products will depend on various factors, including our ability to: effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets; timely complete and introduce new products and technologies; transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries; and obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials. we occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements, and we could experience delays in the future. in addition, in the past, we have been unable to successfully manage product transitions from older to newer products resulting in obsolete inventory. our failure to successfully develop and introduce new products and technologies or identify new uses for existing or future products, could result in rapidly declining average selling prices, reduced demand for our products or loss of market share any of which could harm our competitive position and cause our revenue, gross margin and overall financial results to suffer. if we are unable to achieve market acceptance and design wins for our products and technologies, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed. the success of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to achieve market acceptance of our new products and enhancements to our existing products and identify and enter new markets. the market for our product and technologies has been characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in pricing of dynamic random-access memory devices and other changes in the total system cost of add-in boards, as well as by severe price competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. broad market acceptance is difficult to achieve and such market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition and frequent new technology and product introductions. if we do not successfully achieve or maintain market acceptance for our products and enhancements or identify and enter new markets, our ability to compete and maintain or increase revenues will suffer. additionally, there can be no assurance that the industry will continue to demand new products with improved standards, features or performance. if our customers, original equipment manufacturers, or oems, original design manufacturers, or odms, add-in-card and motherboard manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies, do not continue to design products that require more advanced or efficient processors and/or the market does not continue to demand new products with increased performance, features, functionality or standards, sales of our products could decline and the markets for our products could shrink. decreased sales of our products for these markets could negatively impact our revenue and our financial results. we believe achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen for hardware components or subassemblies designed by oems, odms, and add-in board, or aib, and motherboard manufacturers is an integral part of our future success. our oem, odm, and aib and motherboard manufacturers' customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles or in connection with trade shows. accordingly, when our customers are making their design decisions, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products in order to be included in our customers' new system configurations. this requires that we: anticipate the features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; price our products competitively; and introduce products to the market within our customers' limited design cycles. if oems, odms and aib and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their systems until at least the next design configuration. therefore, we endeavor to develop close relationships with our oems and odms, in an attempt to better anticipate and address customer needs in new products so that we will achieve design wins. 14 table of contents our ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and be compliant with evolving industry standards. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, we may not be designed into our customers' product designs. however, to be compliant with changes to industry standards, we may have to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products which could negatively impact our gross margin or operating results. if we are unable to achieve new design wins for existing or new customers, we may lose market share and our operating results would be negatively impacted. if new consumer products and technologies which incorporate our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business could be negatively impacted. the success of our business also depends on market acceptance of new consumer products and technologies, such as smartphones, smartbooks, tablets and other similar consumer electronics devices, which contain our products. as markets for these new consumer products emerge, we may encounter new sources of competition as well as customers who have different requirements than those in the pc business. if market acceptance of such products and technologies is not attained, our ability to compete and maintain or increase revenues will be adversely affected. our ability to be successful in emerging consumer product markets depends in part on our ability to cultivate new industry relationships in these market segments. as the number and variety of internet-connected devices increase, we will need to improve the functionality of our products to succeed in these new markets, which may require significant time and resources on our part to design our products which could negatively impact our business. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, climate change, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters or catastrophic events. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, a majority of our principal it data centers are located in california, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in this geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including taiwan, china and korea. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. however, in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer. in late july 2011, thailand began experiencing severe flooding that has caused widespread damage to the local manufacturing industry. pc manufacturers obtain disk drive components used in its pcs from suppliers with operations in thailand that were and continue to be severely impacted by the flooding. these pc manufacturers have and expect to continue to experience a short-term reduction in the supply of these disk drive components. as a result, in our fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 shipments of pcs by some pc manufacturers were reduced, which reduced the demand for our gpus. in addition, higher disk-drive prices constrained the ability of some pc manufacturers to include a gpu in their systems which also reduced demand for our gpus and negatively impacted our financial results for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. 15 table of contents a decline in demand in certain end-user markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and results of operations. our customer base includes companies in a wide range of end-user markets, but we generate a significant amount of revenue from sales to customers in the communications-and computer-related industries. within these end-user markets, a large portion of our revenue is generated from sales to customers in the cell phone, tablet and pc markets, including professional workstations. decline in one or several of these end-user markets could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our results of operations and financial condition. these declines could be large and sudden. since pc, cell phone and tablet manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they incorrectly forecast product transitions. in these cases, these manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inventory from suppliers like us until their excess inventory has been absorbed, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. we sell our products to a small number of customers and our business could suffer if we lose any of these customers. we receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. revenue from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total revenue, aggregated approximately 11% of our total revenue from one customer for the fiscal year 2012 and approximately 12% of our total revenue from another customer for fiscal years 2011 and 2010. sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, as well as the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and will likely continue to fluctuate dramatically in the future. our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. in the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; our customers may develop their own solutions; our customers may purchase products from our competitors; or our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. the loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, our business and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. to achieve our business objectives, it may be necessary from time to time for us to expand or contract our operations. in the future, we may not be able to scale our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. in that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expected, the rate of increase in our costs and operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if such demand does not materialize at the pace which we expect, we may be required to scale down our business through expense and headcount reductions as well as facility consolidations or closures that could result in restructuring charges that would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. because many of our expenses are fixed in the short-term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any decrease in customer demand. if customer demand does not increase as anticipated, our profitability could be adversely affected due to our higher expense levels. our past growth has placed, and any future long-term growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. to implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. all of these endeavors require substantial management effort. if we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our costs and expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 16 table of contents our revenue may fluctuate while our operating expenses are relatively fixed, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. demand for many of our revenue components fluctuates and is difficult to predict, and our operating expenses are relatively fixed and largely independent of revenue. therefore, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and profits or losses in any particular period. our operating expenses, which are comprised of research and development expenses and sales, general and administrative expenses, represented 35.2%, 32.6% and 38.3% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. since we often recognize a substantial portion of our revenue in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to adjust our operating expenses in a timely manner in response to any unanticipated revenue shortfalls in any quarter. further, some of our operating expenses, like stock-based compensation expense, can only be adjusted over a longer period of time and cannot be reduced during a quarter. if we are unable to reduce operating expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls, our financial results will be negatively impacted. any one or more of the risks discussed in this annual report on form 10-k or other factors could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income. accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. similarly, the results of any quarterly or full fiscal year period are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for a subsequent quarter or a full fiscal year. as a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. we believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may continue to be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations. because our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, our failure to forecast changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our gross margin. we are focused on improving our gross margin. our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, including: the mix of our products sold; average selling prices; introduction of new products; product transitions; sales discounts; unexpected pricing actions by our competitors; the cost of product components; and the yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our products. if we do not correctly forecast the impact of any of the relevant factors on our business, there may not be any actions we can take or we may not be able to take any possible actions in time to counteract any negative impact on our gross margin. in addition, if we are unable to meet our gross margin target for any period or the target set by analysts, the trading price of our common stock may decline. global economic conditions may adversely affect our business and financial results. our operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a continuing risk to our business as consumers and businesses have postponed spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which have reduced the demand for our products. other factors that could depress demand for our products in the future include the european sovereign debt crisis, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, expectations for inflation, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer and business spending behavior. these and other economic factors have reduced demand for our products in the past and could further harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 17 table of contents our business is cyclical in nature and has experienced severe downturns that have harmed, and may in the future harm, our business and financial results. our business is directly affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry has been adversely affected by many factors, including the global downturn, ongoing efforts by our customers to reduce their spending, diminished product demand, increased inventory levels, lower average selling prices, uncertainty regarding long-term growth rates and underlying financial health and increased competition. these factors, could, among other things, limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue and in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if our actions to reduce our operating expenses to sufficiently offset these factors when they occur are unsuccessful, our operating results will suffer. our stock price continues to be volatile and investors may suffer losses. our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between our actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by us and our competitors, or uncertainty about current global economic conditions. the stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. for example, following our announcement in july 2008 that we would take a charge against cost of revenue to cover anticipated costs and expenses arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation media and communication processor, or mcp and gpu products and that we were revising financial guidance for our second fiscal quarter of 2009, the trading price of our common stock declined. in september, october and november 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us relating to this announcement. please refer to note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this form 10-k for further information regarding these lawsuits. due to changes in the potential volatility of our stock price, we may be the target of securities litigation in the future. such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. our failure to estimate customer demand properly could adversely affect our financial results. we manufacture our products based on forecasts of customer demand in order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers. as a result, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur or may build inventory anticipating demand for a product that does not materialize. in forecasting demand, we make multiple assumptions any of which may prove to be incorrect. situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include: changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in the semiconductor industry and/or overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market, expectations for inflation, and energy prices; if there were a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements; if we fail to estimate customer demand properly for our older products as our newer products are introduced; or if our competition were to take unexpected competitive pricing actions. any inability to sell products to which we have devoted resources could harm our business. in addition, cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margin and restrict our ability to fund operations. additionally, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. we could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding inventory write-downs and/or a reduction in average selling prices if growth slows or does not materialize, or if we incorrectly forecast product demand, which could negatively impact our financial results. 18 table of contents conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our third-party manufacturing partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production for us meaning that we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill our customers' orders on a timely basis. even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost effective or timely manner. inability to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, could damage our customer relationships, result in lost revenue, cause a loss in market share, impact our customer relationships or damage our reputation, any of which could adversely impact our business. we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. we have acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products and business. most recently, we completed our acquisition of icera inc., an innovator of baseband processors for 3g and 4g cellular phones and tablets. such a transaction can involve significant integration challenges and there can be no assurance that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues and risks that might arise with respect to the acquisition. if we are unable to timely and successfully integrate the acquired operations, product lines and technology of icera, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition, which could adversely affect our business plans and operating results. we may enter into future acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, in order to complement or expand our current businesses or enter into a new business market. negotiations associated with an acquisition or strategic investment could divert management's attention and other company resources. any of the following risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products, our ability to sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results: difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business; difficulty in operating in a new or multiple new locations; disruption of our ongoing businesses or the ongoing business of the company we invest in or acquire; difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; difficulty integrating the target's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; disruption of or delays in ongoing research and development efforts; diversion of capital and other resources; assumption of liabilities; incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; diversion of resources and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or investments; potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development, or legal and financial contingencies, among other things; difficulties in entering into new markets in which we have limited or no experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger positions; incurring significant exit charges if products acquired in business combinations are unsuccessful; potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions or investments; potential delay in customer and distributor purchasing decisions due to uncertainty about the direction of our product offerings; and impairment of relationships with employees, vendors and customers, or the loss of any of our key employees, vendors or customers our target's key employees, vendors or customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. 19 table of contents in addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, the issuance of convertible debt securities or a combination of cash, convertible debt and common stock. if we make an investment in cash or use cash to pay for all or a portion of an acquisition, our cash reserves would be reduced which could negatively impact the growth of our business or our ability to develop new products. however, if we pay the consideration with shares of common stock, or convertible debentures, the holdings of our existing stockholders would be diluted. the significant decline in the trading price of our common stock would make the dilution to our stockholders more extreme and could negatively impact our ability to pay the consideration with shares of common stock or convertible debentures. we cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future strategic investments or acquisitions, or the effect that any such investments or acquisitions might have on our operations or financial results. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and third party business. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our partners or customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our partners and customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systemic failures, systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect, our financial results, stock price and reputation. any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, including from foreign customers, could harm our operating results and financial condition. our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers' businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. we recorded approximately 20% and 11% of our accounts receivable balance from the same customer at january 29, 2012 and january 30, 2011, respectively. difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. these difficulties are heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. we continue to work directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts receivable from them. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. this allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, and we may be required to pay higher credit insurance premiums, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. in the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results. we obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to certain customers. as a result of the tightening of the credit markets, we may not be able to acquire credit insurance on the credit we extend to these customers or in amounts that we deem sufficient. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our accounts receivable, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit our credit risk or avoid losses, which could harm our financial condition or operating results. 20 table of contents we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees which could negatively impact our business. our future success and ability to compete is substantially dependent on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified key personnel. the market for key employees in the technology industry can be competitive. none of our key employees is bound by an employment agreement, meaning our relationships with all of our key employees are at will. the loss of the services of any of our other key employees without an adequate replacement or our inability to hire new employees as needed could delay our product development efforts, harm our ability to sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business. in addition, we rely on stock-based awards as a means for recruiting, motivating and retaining highly skilled talent. if the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. we are dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, which reduce our control over the delivery schedule, product quantity or product quality. our products are assembled, tested and packaged by independent subcontractors, such as advanced semiconductor engineering, inc., amkor technology, chippac, jsi logistics, ltd., king yuan electronics co. and siliconware precision industries co. ltd. as a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules, product quantity, or product quality. all of these subcontractors assemble, test and package products for other companies, including some of our competitors. since we do not have long-term agreements with our subcontractors, when demand for subcontractors to assemble, test or package products is high, our subcontractors may decide to prioritize the orders of other customers over our orders. since the time required to qualify a different subcontractor to assemble, test or package our products can be lengthy, if we have to find a replacement subcontractor we could experience significant delays in shipments of our products, product shortages, a decrease in the quality of our products, or an increase in product cost. any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture, assembly or testing of our products, which could cause our gross margin and revenue to decline. we rely on third-party vendors to supply software development tools to us for the development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools necessary to develop or enhance new or existing products. we rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements. to bring new products or product enhancements to market in a timely manner, or at all, we need software development tools that are sophisticated enough or technologically advanced enough to complete our design, simulations and verifications. in the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. in the future, the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. unavailability of software development tools may result in our missing design cycles or losing design wins, either of which could result in a loss of market share or negatively impact our operating results. because of the importance of software development tools to the development and enhancement of our products, a critical component of our product development efforts is our partnerships with leaders in the computer-aided design industry, including cadence design systems, inc. and synopsys, inc. we have invested significant resources to develop relationships with these industry leaders and have often assisted them in the definition of their new products. we believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3d graphics, communications and networking segments and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. if these relationships are not successful, we may be unable to develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner, which could result in a loss of market share, a decrease in revenue or negatively impact our operating results. if our products contain significant defects, our financial results could be negatively impacted, our reputation could be damaged and we could lose market share. our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. if any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. such efforts could divert our engineers' attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. in addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including our customers' costs to repair or replace products in the field. a product recall or a significant 21 table of contents number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, could result in the shifting of business to our competitors and could result in litigation against us. costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded net warranty charges of $466.4 million against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set used in certain versions of our previous generation mcp, and gpu products used in notebook configurations and shipped after july 2008. please see the risk entitled we are subject to litigation arising from alleged defects in our previous generation mcp and gpu products which, if determined adversely to us, could harm our business for further information regarding this product defect. we may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating results. if new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors, our entry into new markets, or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in our research and development efforts, our operating expenses would increase. our engineering and technical resources included 5,042, 4,161 and 3,940 full-time employees as of january 29, 2012, january 30, 2011 and january 31, 2010, respectively. research and development expenditures were $1,002.6 million, $848.8 million and $908.9 million for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. if we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenue which could negatively impact our financial results. in order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development. we are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. we conduct our business worldwide. our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third-parties located outside of the united states and other americas. we generated 78%, 83%, and 84% of our revenue for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively, from sales to customers outside the united states and other americas. as of january 29, 2012, we had offices in 15 countries outside of the united states. the manufacture, assembly, test and packaging of our products outside of the united states, operation of offices outside of the united states, and sales to customers internationally subjects us to a number of risks, including: international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; complying with a variety of foreign laws; differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa) and other anticorruption laws and regulations; inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition of additional taxes and penalties; and other factors beyond our control such as terrorism, cyber attack, civil unrest, war and diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome and the avian flu. if sales to any of our customers outside of the united states and other americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. our international operations in canada, china, hong kong, finland, france, germany, india, japan, korea, russia, singapore, sweden, switzerland, taiwan and the united kingdom are subject to many of the above listed risks. difficulties with our international operations, including finding appropriate staffing and office space, may divert management's attention and other resources any of which could negatively impact our operating results. 22 table of contents legal and regulatory requirements differ among jurisdictions worldwide. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. although we have policies, controls, and procedures designed to ensure compliance with foreign laws, many of these laws and regulations are ambiguous and are often interpreted and enforced in unpredictable ways. the economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. all of our international sales to date have been denominated in united states dollars. accordingly, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. we anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities. our investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the capital markets. our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of january 29, 2012 consisted of cash and cash equivalents, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines, designed to preserve principal, minimize risk, monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. the policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes, variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. should financial market conditions worsen in the future, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from market liquidity and credit concerns. in addition, any deterioration of the capital markets could cause our other income and expense to vary from expectations. as of january 29, 2012 we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio, and although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, or credit availability, and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. risks related to regulatory, legal, our common stock and other matters we are subject to litigation arising from alleged defects in our previous generation mcp and gpu products which, if determined adversely to us, could harm our business. as of january 29, 2012, we recorded a total cumulative net warranty charge of $475.9 million, of which $466.4 million has been charged against cost of revenue, to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set used in certain versions of our previous generation mcp and gpu products shipped after july 2008 and used in notebook configuration. the previous generation mcp and gpu products that are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. certain notebook configurations of these mcp and gpu products are failing in the field at higher than normal rates. testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing factors for these failures. we have worked with our customers to develop and have made available for download a software driver to cause the system fan to begin operation at the powering up of the system and reduce the thermal stress on these chips. we have also recommended to our customers that they consider changing the thermal management of the products in their notebook system designs. although we believe this issue has been nearly fully remediated, we remain committed to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. we continue to not see any abnormal failure rates in any systems using nvidia products other than certain notebook configurations. however, we are continuing to test and otherwise investigate other products. there can be no assurance that we will not discover defects in other products. in september, october and november 2008, several putative securities class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted mcp and gpu products. such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from this litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. 23 table of contents we are a party to other litigation, including patent litigation, which, if determined adversely to us, could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. we are a party to other litigation as both a defendant and as a plaintiff. for example, we are engaged in litigation with parties related to our acquisition of 3dfx in 2001. please refer to note 14 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv of this form 10-k for further details on this lawsuit. there can be no assurance that any litigation to which we are a party will be resolved in our favor. any claim that is successfully decided against us may cause us to pay substantial damages, including punitive damages, and other related fees or prevent us from selling or importing certain of our products. regardless of whether lawsuits are resolved in our favor or if we are the plaintiff or the defendant in the litigation, any lawsuits to which we are a party will likely be expensive and time consuming to defend or resolve. such lawsuits could also harm our relationships with existing customers and result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. changes in united states tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially impact our business. currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the united states, and a significant portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the united states. united states income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain non-united states subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. throughout the period of president obama's administration and as recently as on february 13, 2012 with the release of the administration's fiscal year 2013 budget, the white house has proposed various international tax measures, some of which, if enacted into law would substantially reduce our ability to defer united states taxes on such indefinitely reinvested non-united states earnings, eliminate certain tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the united states and/or otherwise cause the total tax cost of u.s. multinational corporations to increase. if these or similar proposals are constituted into legislation in the current or future year(s), they could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. our operating results may be adversely affected if we are subject to unexpected tax liabilities. we are subject to taxation by a number of taxing authorities both in the united states and throughout the world. tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for our income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, any of the below could cause our effective tax rate to be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the united states or abroad or the issuance of new interpretative accounting guidance related to uncertain transactions and calculations where the tax treatment was previously uncertain; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of any of the above, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws or changes in the interpretation of tax laws. litigation to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights or to enforce our intellectual property rights and the outcome of such litigation could result in substantial costs to us. we expect that as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases and as competition intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims and lawsuits may increase. we may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us or by our customers that we have agreed to indemnify them for certain claims of infringement. an unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. 24 table of contents in addition, in the future, we may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property; enforce our patents; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. if we have to initiate litigation in order to protect our intellectual property, our operating expenses may increase which could negatively impact our operating results. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. if infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third parties' patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnified customers may have to seek a license to the third parties' patent or other intellectual property rights. however, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. if we or one of our indemnified customers is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. we may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. furthermore, the indemnification of a customer may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. we have numerous patents issued, allowed and pending in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. we also rely on international treaties, organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as: the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations in particular countries and regions; the location in which our products are manufactured; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. in addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. the enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. on september 16, 2011, the leahy-smith america invents act, or the leahy-smith act, was signed into law. the leahy-smith act includes a number of significant changes to united states patent law. these include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. the united states patent office is currently developing regulations and procedures to govern administration of the leahy-smith act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the leahy-smith act will not become effective until one year or 18 months after its enactment. accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the leahy-smith act will have on the operation of our business. however, the leahy-smith act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. government investigations and inquiries from regulatory agencies could lead to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties and could result in litigation against us. in the past, we have been subject to government investigations and inquiries from regulatory agencies such as the department of justice and the sec. we may be subject to government investigations and receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future, which may lead to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties. 25 table of contents in addition, litigation has often been brought against a company in connection with the announcement of a government investigation or inquiry from a regulatory agency. such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. we are subject to the risks of owning real property. during fiscal year 2009, we purchased real property in santa clara, california that includes approximately 25 acres of land and ten commercial buildings. we also own real property in china and india. we have limited experience in the ownership and management of real property and are subject to the risks of owning real property, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with mitigating any environmental problems; adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the market in which the property is located, or other factors; the risk of loss if we decide to sell and are not able to recover all capitalized costs; increased cash commitments for the possible construction of a campus; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements; increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property or both; possible disputes with third parties, such as neighboring owners or others, related to the buildings or the property or both; and the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and or other natural disasters. expensing employee equity compensation adversely affects our operating results and could also adversely affect our competitive position. since inception, we have used equity through our equity incentive plans and our employee stock purchase program as a fundamental component of our compensation packages. we believe that these programs directly motivate our employees and, through the use of vesting, encourage our employees to remain with us. we record compensation expense for stock options, restricted stock units and our employee stock purchase plan using the fair value of those awards in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in united states of america, or u.s. gaap. stock-based compensation expense was $136.4 million, $100.4 million and $107.1 million for fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, related to on-going vesting of equity awards, which negatively impacted our operating results. to the extent that expensing employee equity compensation makes it more expensive to grant stock options and restricted stock units or to continue to have an employee stock purchase program, we may decide to incur increased cash compensation costs. in addition, actions that we may take to reduce stock-based compensation expense that may be more severe than any actions our competitors may implement and may make it difficult to attract retain and motivate employees, which could adversely affect our competitive position as well as our business and operating results. we may be required to record a charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating results. under u.s. gaap, we review our amortizable intangible assets and goodwill for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable assets from acquisitions may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry or in any of our business units. estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. however, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. for example, if one of our business units does not meet its near-term and longer-term forecasts, the goodwill assigned to the business unit could be impaired. we may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations. 26 table of contents our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities. we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. although our management systems are designed to maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. if we violate or fail to comply with any of them, a range of consequences could result, including fines, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. we could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at, under or emanating from our facilities or other environmental or natural resource damage. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. for example, the european union and china are two among a growing number of jurisdictions that have enacted in recent years restrictions on the use of lead, among other chemicals, in electronic products. these regulations affect semiconductor packaging. there is a risk that the cost, quality and manufacturing yields of lead-free products may be less favorable compared to lead-based products or that the transition to lead-free products may produce sudden changes in demand, which may result in excess inventory. there is also a movement to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals coming from the conflict zones of the democratic republic of congo. new u.s. legislation includes disclosure requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries and procedures regarding a manufacturer's efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. the implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices. as a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stockholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products. future environmental legal requirements may become more stringent or costly and our compliance costs and potential liabilities arising from past and future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances may harm our business and our reputation. while we believe that we have adequate internal control over financial reporting, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm determines that we do not, our reputation may be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to audit, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. however, the manner in which companies and their independent public accounting firms apply these requirements and test companies' internal controls remains subject to some judgment. to date, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, increased expense and to devote additional management resources to section 404 compliance. despite our efforts, if we identify a material weakness in our internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate that material weakness in a timely manner, or that we will be able to maintain all of the controls necessary to determine that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. in the event that our chief executive officer, interim chief financial officer or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported results of operations . we prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap. these principles are constantly subject to review and interpretation by the sec and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. a change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. additionally, changes in existing accounting rules or practices, including the possible conversion to unified international accounting standards, could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. 27 table of contents provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of our board to create and issue preferred stock without prior stockholder approval; the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; a classified board; and advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investment and interest rate risk as of january 29, 2012 and january 30, 2011 , we had $3.13 billion and $2.49 billion , respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset-backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. as of january 29, 2012 , we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. our investments are denominated in united states dollars. all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in securities market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in our consolidated statements of operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other-than-temporary. these securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders' equity, net of tax. as of january 29, 2012 , we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair values for these investments of approximately $13.7 million . the financial turmoil that affected the banking system and financial markets and increased the possibility that financial institutions might consolidate or go out of business resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact our treasury operations. other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. volatility in the financial markets and economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. as of january 29, 2012 , our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 51% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 24% of our total investment portfolio. of the financial sector investments, over half are guaranteed by the u.s. government. substantially all of our investments are with a/a2 or better rated securities. if the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2%-5%, the fair values of these investments would decline by approximately $43 - $107 million . exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other income (expense), net in our consolidated financial statements and to date have not been significant. the impact of foreign currency transaction gain (loss) included in determining net income (loss) for fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 was $1.6 million , $(2.4) million and $(0.9) million, respectively. currently, sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, 55 table of contents which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. we may enter into certain transactions such as forward contracts which are designed to reduce the future potential impact resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. there were no forward exchange contracts outstanding at january 29, 2012 .risk factors 14 risk factors - risks related to regulatory, legal, our common stock and other matters - our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities . financial information by reporting segment and geographic data the information included in note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k, including financial information by reporting segment and revenue and long-lived assets by geographic region, is hereby incorporated by reference. for additional detail regarding the risks attendant to our foreign operations see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to our business, industry and partners - we are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. executive officers of the registrant the following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and their positions as of february 25, 2013: name age position jen-hsun huang 50 president, chief executive officer and director karen burns 45 vice president and interim chief financial officer ajay k. puri 58 executive vice president, worldwide sales david m. shannon 57 executive vice president, general counsel and secretary debora shoquist 58 executive vice president, operations jen-hsun huang co-founded nvidia in april 1993 and has served as its president, chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors since its inception. from 1985 to 1993, mr. huang was employed at lsi logic corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions, most recently as director of coreware, the business unit responsible for lsi's system-on-chip strategy. from 1983 to 1985, mr. huang was a microprocessor designer for advanced micro devices, inc., a semiconductor company. mr. huang holds a b.s.e.e. degree from oregon state university and an m.s.e.e. degree from stanford university. karen burns joined nvidia in october 2000 and has served as vice president and interim chief financial officer of nvidia since march 2011. from december 2010 to march 2011, ms. burns served as nvidia's vice president, corporate controller and tax and as vice president - tax from november 2007. from october 2000 to october 2007, ms. burns served as head of the tax department in various capacities, including senior director and director. previous to nvidia, ms. burns served nine years in various capacities in tax and audit with kpmg, a global public accounting firm, in their atlanta, london, and silicon valley based practices. ms. burns holds both a b.a. and an m.a. in accounting from florida state university. ajay k. puri joined nvidia in december 2005 as senior vice president, worldwide sales and became executive vice president, worldwide sales in january 2009. prior to nvidia, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over a 22-year career at sun microsystems, inc. mr. puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development positions at hewlett-packard company, booz allen hamilton inc., and texas instruments incorporated. mr. puri holds an m.b.a. degree from harvard university, an m.s.e.e. degree from the california institute of technology and a b.s.e.e. degree from the university of minnesota. david m. shannon serves as executive vice president, general counsel and secretary of nvidia. mr. shannon joined nvidia in august 2002 as vice president and general counsel. mr. shannon became secretary of nvidia in april 2005, a senior vice president in december 2005 and an executive vice president in january 2009. in january 2013, mr. shannon also became the head of human resources and currently leads both the legal and human resources functions. from 1993 to 2002, mr. shannon held various counsel positions at intel, most recently the position of vice president and assistant general counsel. mr. shannon also practiced for eight years in the law firm of gibson dunn and crutcher, focusing on complex commercial and high-technology related litigation. mr. shannon holds b.a. and j.d. degrees from pepperdine university. 13 table of contents debora shoquist joined nvidia in september 2007 as senior vice president of operations and became executive vice president of operations in january 2009. from 2004 to 2007, ms. shoquist served as senior vice president of operations at jds uniphase corporation, a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications industry. from 2002 to 2004, she served as senior vice president and general manager of the electro-optics business at coherent, inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. her experience includes her role at quantum corporation as the president of the personal computer hard disk drive division. her experience also includes senior roles at hewlett-packard corporation. she holds a b.s degree in electrical engineering from kansas state university and a b.s. degree in biology from santa clara university. available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on or through our web site, http://www.nvidia.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission, or the sec. our web site and the information on it or connected to it are not a part of this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors in evaluating nvidia and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. additionally, any one of the following risks could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. risks related to our business, industry and partners if we are unable to compete in the markets for our products, our financial results will be adversely impacted . the market for our products is extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings, industry standards continue to evolve and others realize the market potential of mobile and consumer products and services. we expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. in addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share. furthermore, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. in addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. in order to effectively compete we may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating results. if we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. in order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development.our ability to compete will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: continue to keep pace with technological developments; develop and introduce new products, services, technologies and enhancements on a timely basis; transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries; obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials; and succeed in significant foreign markets, such as china and india. 14 table of contents if we are unable to compete in our current or new markets, demand for our products could decrease which could cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to suffer. if and to the extent we offer products in new markets, we may face competition from existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. we expect substantial competition from both intel's and amd's strategy of selling platform solutions, including integrating a cpu and a gpu on the same chip or same package, as evidenced by amd's apu product and intel's cpus with integrated graphics. as amd and intel continue to pursue platform solutions and integrated cpus, we may not be able to successfully compete and our business could be negatively impacted. despite the use of these integrated cpus, personal computer, or pc, builders and consumers have continued to embrace discrete gpus to provide higher performance, or the gpu attach rate. if integrated cpus offer a more compelling value proposition in the future, our gpu attach rate could decrease, which could adversely affect our business and cause our financial results to decline. our business results could be adversely affected if the identification and development of new products is delayed or unsuccessful. in order to maintain or improve our financial results, we will need to continue to identify and develop new products and enhancements to our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner. the process of developing new products and services and enhancing existing products and services is highly complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technology trends could adversely affect our business. we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our new products and technologies. it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. even if we introduce new and enhanced products to the market, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance of them in a timely manner. our ability to successfully develop and deliver new products will depend on various factors, including our ability to: effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets; timely complete and introduce new products and technologies; transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries; and obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials. we occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements, and we could experience delays in the future. in addition, in the past, we have been unable to successfully manage product transitions from older to newer products resulting in obsolete inventory. our failure to successfully develop and introduce new products and technologies or identify new uses for existing or future products could result in rapidly declining average selling prices, reduced demand for our products or loss of market share, any of which could harm our competitive position and cause our revenue, gross margin and overall financial results to suffer. if we are unable to achieve market acceptance and design wins for our products and technologies, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed. the success of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to achieve market acceptance of our new products and enhancements to our existing products and identify and enter new markets, such as smartphones, tablets and other similar consumer electronic devices. the markets for our products and technologies are characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in pricing of dynamic random-access memory devices and other changes in the total system cost of add-in boards, or aibs, as well as by severe price competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. broad market acceptance is difficult to achieve and such market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition and frequent new technology and product introductions. our success in achieving marketing acceptance will depend in part on our ability to cultivate new industry relationships and improve the functionality of our products as the number of internet-connected devices increases. if we do not successfully achieve or maintain market acceptance for our products and enhancements or identify and enter new markets, our ability to compete and maintain or increase revenues will suffer. additionally, there can be no assurance that the industry will continue to demand new products with improved standards, features or performance. if our customers, original equipment manufacturers, or oems, original design manufacturers, or odms, add-in card and motherboard manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies do not continue to design products that require more advanced or efficient processors and/or the markets do not continue to demand new products with increased performance, features, functionality or standards, sales of our products could decline and the markets for our products could shrink. decreased sales of our products for these markets could negatively impact our revenue and our financial results. 15 table of contents we believe achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen for hardware components or subassemblies designed by oems, odms, and aib and motherboard manufacturers, is an integral part of our future success. our oem, odm, and aib and motherboard manufacturers' customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles or in connection with trade shows. accordingly, when our customers are making their design decisions, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products in order to be included in our customers' new system configurations. this requires that we: anticipate the features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; price our products competitively; and introduce products to the market within our customers' limited design cycles. if oems, odms, and aib and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their systems until at least the next design configuration. therefore, we endeavor to develop close relationships with our oems and odms, in an attempt to better anticipate and address customer needs in new products so that we will achieve design wins. our ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and be compliant with evolving industry standards. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, we may not be designed into our customers' product designs. however, to be compliant with changes to industry standards, we may have to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products which could negatively impact our gross margin or operating results. if we are unable to achieve new design wins for existing or new customers, we may lose market share and our operating results would be negatively impacted. we depend on foundries to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies or otherwise satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our business . we do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited, or tsmc, to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. a substantial portion of our wafers are supplied by tsmc. the foundries, which have limited capacity, also manufacture products for other semiconductor companies, including some of our competitors. since we do not have long-term commitment contracts with any of these foundries, they do not have an obligation to provide us with any set pricing or minimum quantity of product at any time except as may be provided in a specific purchase order. most of our products are only manufactured by one foundry at a time. in times of high demand, the foundries could choose to prioritize their capacity for other companies, reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, or increase the prices that they charge us. if we are unable to meet customer demand due to reduced or eliminated deliveries or have to increase the prices of our products, we could lose sales to customers, which would negatively impact our revenue and our reputation. we use the most advanced manufacturing process technology appropriate for our products that is available from our third-party foundries. as a result, we continuously evaluate the benefits of migrating our products to smaller geometry process technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development, which could negatively impact our operating expenses and gross margin. our third-party foundries may not be able to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies needed to manufacture our products profitably or on a timely basis. our competitors (including those that own their own manufacturing facilities) may also develop high quality, leading-edge process technologies earlier than our third-party foundries. if our third-party foundries experience manufacturing inefficiencies, we may fail to achieve acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays. we have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes in the past and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. for example, due to capacity constraints at tsmc of our 28 nanometer kepler gpus in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, we were unable to fulfill customer demand for our high-end desktop gpu products, and as our sales mix shifted to our mainstream desktop gpu products, revenue and gross margins for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 were negatively impacted compared to the prior quarter. we experienced continued 28 nanometer-supply constraints in the second quarter of fiscal year 2013. 16 table of contents because the lead-time needed to establish strategic relationships with new manufacturing partners and achieve initial production could be over a year, we do not have an alternative source of supply for our products. in addition, the time and effort to qualify a new foundry would result in additional expense and diversion of resources, and could result in lost sales, any of which would negatively impact our financial results. we believe that long-term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with the third-party manufacturers we use to ensure adequate product supply and competitive pricing to respond to customer demand. failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products could negatively impact our financial results and damage our reputation. manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the manufacturer. low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. we do not know a yield problem exists until our design is manufactured. when a yield issue is identified, the product is analyzed and tested to determine the cause. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process. resolution of yield problems requires cooperation by, and communication between, us and the manufacturer. because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry capacity, decreases in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. lower than expected yields could potentially harm customer relationships, our reputation and our financial results. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, a majority of our principal information technology, or it, data centers are located in california, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in this geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including taiwan, china and korea. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. however, in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer. a decline in demand in certain end-user markets could decrease the demand for our products and harm our results of operations. our customer base includes companies in a wide range of end-user markets, but we generate a significant amount of revenue from sales to customers in the communications- and computer-related industries. within these end-user markets, a large portion of our revenue is generated from sales to customers in the cell phone, tablet and pc markets, including professional workstations. decline in one or several of these end-user markets could harm demand for our products and our results of operations and financial condition. these declines could be large and sudden. since pc, cell phone and tablet manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they incorrectly forecast product transitions. in these cases, these manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inventory from suppliers like us until their excess inventory has been absorbed, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. 17 table of contents we sell our products to a small number of customers and our business could suffer if we lose any of these customers. we receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. one customer accounted for 13% of our total revenue in fiscal year 2013 and 11% of our total revenue in fiscal year 2012 and another customer accounted for 12% of our total revenue in fiscal year 2011. approximately 40% of our accounts receivable balance was from three customers as of january 27, 2013, and 20% of our accounts receivable balance was from one customer as of january 29, 2012. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to certain customers. in the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results and as a result of the tightening of the credit markets, we may not be able to acquire credit insurance on the credit we extend to these customers or in amounts that we deem sufficient. sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, as well as the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and will likely continue to fluctuate dramatically in the future. our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. in the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; our customers may develop their own solutions; our customers may purchase products from our competitors; or our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. the loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations and any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could harm our operating results and financial condition. if we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, our business and profitability could be harmed. to achieve our business objectives, it may be necessary from time to time for us to expand or contract our operations. in the future, we may not be able to scale our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. in that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expected, the rate of increase in our costs and operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if such demand does not materialize at the pace which we expect, we may be required to scale down our business through expense and headcount reductions as well as facility consolidations or closures that could result in restructuring charges that would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. because many of our expenses are fixed in the short-term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any decrease in customer demand. if customer demand does not increase as anticipated, our profitability could be adversely affected due to our higher expense levels. our past growth has placed, and any future long-term growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. to implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. all of these endeavors require substantial management effort. if we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our costs and expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would harm our results of operations. 18 table of contents our revenue may fluctuate while our operating expenses are relatively fixed, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. our operating expenses are relatively fixed and largely independent of revenue. therefore, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast profits or losses in any particular period. our operating expenses, which are comprised of research and development expenses and sales, general and administrative expenses, represented 36.9%, 35.2% and 32.6% of our total revenue for fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. since we often recognize a substantial portion of our revenue in the last month of each quarter, it is also difficult to accurately forecast revenue and we may not be able to adjust our operating expenses in a timely manner in response to any unanticipated revenue shortfalls in any quarter. further, some of our operating expenses, like stock-based compensation expense, can only be adjusted over a longer period of time and cannot be reduced during a quarter. if we are unable to reduce operating expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls, our financial results will be negatively impacted. any one or more of the risks discussed in this annual report on form 10-k or other factors could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income. accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. similarly, the results of any quarterly or full fiscal year period are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for a subsequent quarter or a full fiscal year. as a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. we believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may continue to be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations. because our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, our failure to forecast changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our gross margin. we are focused on improving our gross margin. our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, including: the mix of our products sold; average selling prices; introduction of new products; product transitions; sales discounts; unexpected pricing actions by our competitors; the cost of product components; and the yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our products. if we do not correctly forecast the impact of any of the relevant factors on our business, there may not be any actions we can take or we may not be able to take any possible actions in time to counteract any negative impact on our gross margin. in addition, if we are unable to meet our gross margin target for any period or the target set by analysts, the trading price of our common stock may decline. our business is cyclical in nature and has experienced severe downturns that have harmed, and may in the future harm, our business and financial results. our business is directly affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry has been adversely affected by many factors, including the global downturn, ongoing efforts by our customers to reduce their spending, diminished product demand, increased inventory levels, lower average selling prices, uncertainty regarding long-term growth rates and underlying financial health and increased competition. these factors, could, among other things, limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue and in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if our actions to reduce our operating expenses to sufficiently offset these factors when they occur are unsuccessful, our operating results will suffer. our stock price continues to be volatile and investors may suffer losses . our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between our actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by us and our competitors, or uncertainty about current global economic conditions. the stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance. 19 table of contents in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in the volatility of our stock price, we have been in the past and may be in the future the target of securities litigation. such lawsuits generally result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. our failure to estimate customer demand properly could adversely affect our financial results. we manufacture our products based on forecasts of customer demand in order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers. as a result, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur or may build inventory anticipating demand for a product that does not materialize. in forecasting demand, we make multiple assumptions any of which may prove to be incorrect. situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include: changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in the semiconductor industry and/or overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market, expectations for inflation, and energy prices; if there were a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements; if we fail to estimate customer demand properly for our older products as our newer products are introduced; or if our competition were to take unexpected competitive pricing actions. any inability to sell products to which we have devoted resources could harm our business. in addition, cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margin and restrict our ability to fund operations. additionally, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. we could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding inventory write-downs and/or a reduction in average selling prices if growth slows or does not materialize, or if we incorrectly forecast product demand, which could negatively impact our financial results. conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our third-party manufacturing partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production for us meaning that we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill our customers' orders on a timely basis. even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost effective or timely manner. inability to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, could damage our customer relationships, result in lost revenue, cause a loss in market share, impact our customer relationships or damage our reputation, any of which could adversely impact our business. we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. we have acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products and business. most recently, we completed our acquisition of icera inc., an innovator of baseband processors for 3g and 4g cellular phones and tablets. such a transaction can involve significant integration challenges and there can be no assurance that pre-acquisition due diligence will have identified all possible issues and risks that might arise with respect to the acquisition. if we are unable to timely and successfully integrate the acquired operations, product lines and technology of icera, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of the acquisition, which could adversely affect our business plans and operating results. we may enter into future acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, in order to complement or expand our current businesses or enter into a new business market. negotiations associated with an acquisition or strategic investment could divert management's attention and other company resources. any of the following risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results: 20 table of contents difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business; difficulty in operating in a new or multiple new locations; disruption of our ongoing businesses or the ongoing business of the company we invest in or acquire; difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; difficulty integrating the target's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; diversion of capital and other resources; assumption of liabilities; incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; diversion of resources and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or investments; potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development, or legal and financial contingencies, among other things; difficulties in entering into new markets in which we have limited or no experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger positions; potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions or investments; and impairment of relationships with employees, vendors and customers, or the loss of any of our key employees, vendors or customers or our target's key employees, vendors or customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. in addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, the issuance of convertible debt securities or a combination of cash, convertible debt and common stock. if we make an investment in cash or use cash to pay for all or a portion of an acquisition, our cash reserves would be reduced which could negatively impact the growth of our business or our ability to develop new products. however, if we pay the consideration with shares of common stock, or convertible debentures, the holdings of our existing stockholders would be diluted. a significant decline in the trading price of our common stock would make the dilution to our stockholders more extreme and could negatively impact our ability to pay the consideration with shares of common stock or convertible debentures. we cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future strategic investments or acquisitions, or the effect that any such investments or acquisitions might have on our operations or financial results. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price . experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and third party business. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our partners or customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our partners and customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. for example, in july 2012, unauthorized third parties gained access to certain user information on our online forums. we have strengthened security in an effort to minimize future attacks. 21 table of contents however, hackers may continue to target our security controls in the future, and we cannot guarantee that our security measures will be able to prevent future breaches of our website and/or attacks on our products. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systemic failures, systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees which could negatively impact our business. our future success and ability to compete are substantially dependent on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified key personnel. the market for key employees in the technology industry can be competitive. none of our key employees is bound by an employment agreement, meaning our relationships with all of our key employees are at will. the loss of the services of any of our key employees without an adequate replacement or our inability to hire new employees as needed could delay our product development efforts, harm our ability to sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business. we are dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, which reduces our control over our product delivery schedule, product quantity or product quality. our products are assembled, tested and packaged by independent subcontractors, such as advanced semiconductor engineering, inc., chippac, jsi logistics, ltd., king yuan electronics co. and siliconware precision industries co. ltd. as a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules, product quantity, or product quality. all of these subcontractors assemble, test and package products for other companies, including some of our competitors. since we do not have long-term agreements with our subcontractors, when demand for subcontractors to assemble, test or package products is high, our subcontractors may decide to prioritize the orders of other customers over our orders. since the time required to qualify a different subcontractor to assemble, test or package our products can be lengthy, if we have to find a replacement subcontractor we could experience significant delays in shipments of our products, product shortages, a decrease in the quality of our products, or an increase in product cost. any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture, assembly or testing of our products, which could cause our gross margin to decline. we rely on third-party vendors to supply software development tools to us for the development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools necessary to develop or enhance new or existing products. we rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements. to bring new products or product enhancements to market in a timely manner, or at all, we need software development tools that are sophisticated enough or technologically advanced enough to complete our design, simulations and verifications. in the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. in the future, the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. unavailability of software development tools may result in our missing design cycles or losing design wins, either of which could result in a loss of market share or negatively impact our operating results. because of the importance of software development tools to the development and enhancement of our products, a critical component of our product development efforts is our partnerships with leaders in the computer-aided design industry, including cadence design systems, inc. and synopsys, inc. we have invested significant resources to develop relationships with these industry leaders and have often assisted them in the definition of their new products. we believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3d graphics, communications and networking segments and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. if these relationships are not successful, we may be unable to develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner, which could result in a loss of market share, a decrease in revenue or a negative impact on our operating results. 22 table of contents if our products contain significant defects, our financial results could be negatively impacted, our reputation could be damaged and we could lose market share. our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. if any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. such efforts could divert our engineers' attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. in addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including our customers' costs to repair or replace products in the field. a product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, could damage our reputation, could result in the shifting of business to our competitors and could result in litigation against us. costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. during fiscal years 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recorded net warranty charges of $466.4 million against cost of revenue to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set used in certain versions of our previous generation mcp and gpu products used in notebook configurations and shipped after july 2008. please see the risk entitled we are subject to litigation which, if determined adversely to us, could harm our business for further information regarding this product defect. we are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. we conduct our business worldwide. our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third-parties located outside of the united states and other americas. we generated 74% , 78% and 83% of our revenue for fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, from sales to customers outside the united states and other americas. as of january 27, 2013, we had offices in 16 countries outside of the united states. the manufacture, assembly, test and packaging of our products outside of the united states, operation of offices outside of the united states, and sales to customers internationally subjects us to a number of risks, including: international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; complying with a variety of foreign laws; differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anticorruption laws and regulations; inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition of additional taxes and penalties; increased costs due to imposition of climate change regulations, such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits; and other factors beyond our control such as terrorism, cyber attack, civil unrest, war and diseases. if sales to any of our customers outside of the united states and other americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. our international operations in china, finland, france, germany, hong kong, india, italy, japan, korea, russia, singapore, sweden, switzerland, united arab emirates, taiwan and the united kingdom are subject to many of the above listed risks. difficulties with our international operations, including finding appropriate staffing and office space, may divert management's attention and other resources, any of which could negatively impact our operating results. 23 table of contents legal and regulatory requirements differ among jurisdictions worldwide. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. although we have policies, controls, and procedures designed to ensure compliance with foreign laws, many of these laws and regulations are ambiguous and are often interpreted and enforced in unpredictable ways. the economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. all of our international sales to date have been denominated in united states dollars. accordingly, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. we anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities. our investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the capital markets. our cash equivalent and marketable securities portfolio as of january 27, 2013 consisted of cash and cash equivalents, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines, designed to preserve principal, minimize risk, and monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. the policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes, and a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. should financial market conditions worsen in the future, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from market liquidity and credit concerns. in addition, any deterioration of the capital markets could cause our other income and expense to vary from expectations. as of january 27, 2013, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio, and although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, or credit availability, and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. risks related to regulatory, legal, our common stock and other matters we are subject to litigation which, if determined adversely to us, could harm our business. for example, we are engaged in litigation with parties related to our acquisition of 3dfx in 2001. in addition, in september, october and november 2008, several putative securities class action lawsuits were filed against for alleged defects in our previous generation mcp and gpu products. as of january 27, 2013, we recorded a total cumulative net warranty charge of $475.9 million, of which $466.4 million has been charged against cost of revenue, to cover anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set used in certain versions of our previous generation mcp and gpu products shipped after july 2008 and used in notebook configuration. the previous generation mcp and gpu products that are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. certain notebook configurations of these mcp and gpu products are failing in the field at higher than normal rates. testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing factors for these failures. we have worked with our customers to develop and have made available for download a software driver to cause the system fan to begin operation at the powering up of the system and reduce the thermal stress on these chips. we have also recommended to our customers that they consider changing the thermal management of the products in their notebook system designs. although we believe this issue has been nearly fully remediated, we remain committed to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. we continue to not see any abnormal failure rates in any systems using nvidia products other than certain notebook configurations. however, we are continuing to test and otherwise investigate other products. there can be no assurance that we will not discover defects in other products. please refer to note 13 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for further details on these lawsuits. 24 table of contents there can be no assurance that any litigation to which we are a party will be resolved in our favor. any claim that is successfully decided against us may cause us to pay substantial damages, including punitive damages, and other related fees or prevent us from selling or importing certain of our products. regardless of whether lawsuits are resolved in our favor or if we are the plaintiff or the defendant in the litigation, any lawsuits to which we are a party will likely be expensive and time consuming to defend or resolve. such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. such lawsuits could also harm our relationships with existing customers and result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. we have numerous patents issued, allowed and pending in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. we also rely on international treaties, organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as: the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations in particular countries and regions; the location in which our products are manufactured; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. in addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. changes in united states tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could adversely impact our business. currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the united states, and a significant portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the united states. united states income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain non-united states subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. throughout the period of president obama's administration, the white house has proposed various international tax measures, some of which, if enacted into law, would substantially reduce our ability to defer united states taxes on such indefinitely reinvested non-united states earnings, eliminate certain tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the united states and/or otherwise cause the total tax cost of u.s. multinational corporations to increase. if these or similar proposals are constituted into legislation in the current or future year(s), they could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. our operating results may be adversely affected if we are subject to unexpected tax liabilities. we are subject to taxation by a number of taxing authorities both in the united states and throughout the world. tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for our income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, any of the below could cause our effective tax rate to be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in stock-based compensation expense; 25 table of contents changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the united states or abroad or the issuance of new interpretative accounting guidance related to transactions and calculations where the tax treatment was previously uncertain; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of any of the above, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws or changes in the interpretation of tax laws. litigation to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights or to enforce our intellectual property rights and the outcome of such litigation could result in substantial costs to us. we expect that as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases and as competition intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims and lawsuits may increase. we may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us or that we have agreed to indemnify our customers for certain claims of infringement. an unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. in addition, in the future, we may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property; enforce our patents; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. if we have to initiate litigation in order to protect our intellectual property, our operating expenses may increase which could negatively impact our operating results. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. if infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third parties' patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnified customers may have to seek a license to the third parties' patent or other intellectual property rights. however, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. if we or one of our indemnified customers is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. we may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. furthermore, the indemnification of a customer may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. we are subject to the risks of owning real property. during fiscal year 2009, we purchased real property in santa clara, california that includes approximately 25 acres of land and ten commercial buildings and expect to break ground on a new building for our corporate headquarters campus in santa clara in fiscal year 2014. we also own real property in china and india. we have limited experience in the ownership and management of real property and are subject to the risks of owning real property, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with mitigating any environmental problems; adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the market in which the property is located, or other factors; the risk of loss if we decide to sell and are not able to recover all capitalized costs; increased cash commitments for the planned construction of our santa clara campus; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements; 26 table of contents increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property or both; possible disputes with third parties, such as neighboring owners or others, related to the buildings or the property or both; and the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and or other natural disasters. expensing employee equity compensation adversely affects our operating results and could also adversely affect our competitive position. since inception, we have used equity through our equity incentive plans and our employee stock purchase program as a fundamental component of our compensation packages. we believe that these programs directly motivate our employees and, through the use of vesting, encourage our employees to remain with us. we record compensation expense for stock options, restricted stock units and our employee stock purchase plan using the fair value of those awards in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in united states of america, or u.s. gaap. stock-based compensation expense was $136.7 million, $136.4 million and $100.4 million for fiscal years 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, related to on-going vesting of equity awards, which negatively impacted our operating results. to the extent that expensing employee equity compensation makes it more expensive to grant stock options and restricted stock units or to continue to have an employee stock purchase program, we may decide to incur increased cash compensation costs. in addition, actions that we may take to reduce stock-based compensation expense that may be more severe than any actions our competitors may implement and may make it difficult to attract retain and motivate employees, which could adversely affect our competitive position as well as our business and operating results. we may be required to record a charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating results. under u.s. gaap, we review our amortizable intangible assets and goodwill for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable assets from acquisitions may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry or in any of our business units. estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. however, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. for example, if one of our business units does not meet its near-term and longer-term forecasts, the goodwill assigned to the business unit could be impaired. we may be required to record a charge to earnings in our financial statements during a period in which an impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined to exist, which may negatively impact our results of operations. our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities. we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. although our management systems are designed to maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. if we violate or fail to comply with any of them, a range of consequences could result, including fines, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. we could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at, under or emanating from our facilities or other environmental or natural resource damage. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. for example, the european union and china are two among a growing number of jurisdictions that have enacted in recent years restrictions on the use of lead, among other chemicals, in electronic products. these regulations affect semiconductor packaging. there is a risk that the cost, quality and manufacturing yields of lead-free products may be less favorable compared to lead-based products or that the transition to lead-free products may produce sudden changes in demand, which may result in excess inventory. 27 table of contents there is also a movement to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals coming from the conflict zones in and around the democratic republic of congo. new u.s. legislation includes disclosure requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries. the implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices. as a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. furthermore, we may incur additional costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals in our products. also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges with our customers and other stockholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products. some customers may require that all of our products are certified to be conflict-free; if we cannot satisfy these customers, they may choose a competitor's products. future environmental legal requirements may become more stringent or costly and our compliance costs and potential liabilities arising from past and future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances may harm our business and our reputation. while we believe that we have adequate internal control over financial reporting, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm determines that we do not, our reputation may be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to audit, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. however, the manner in which companies and their independent public accounting firms apply these requirements and test companies' internal controls remains subject to some judgment. to date, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, increased expense and to devote additional management resources to section 404 compliance. despite our efforts, if we identify a material weakness in our internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate that material weakness in a timely manner, or that we will be able to maintain all of the controls necessary to determine that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. in the event that our chief executive officer, interim chief financial officer or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported results of operations. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap. these principles are constantly subject to review and interpretation by the sec and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. a change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. additionally, changes in existing accounting rules or practices, including the possible conversion to unified international accounting standards, could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft corporation could delay or prevent a change in control. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of our board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior stockholder approval; the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; a classified board of directors, which will become fully declassified from and after our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders; and advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. 28 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investment and interest rate risk as of january 27, 2013 and january 29, 2012 , we had $3.73 billion and $3.13 billion , respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset-backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. as of january 27, 2013 , we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. our investments are denominated in united states dollars. all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale. investments in both fixed and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in securities market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in our consolidated statements of income due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other-than-temporary. these securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders' equity, net of tax. as of january 27, 2013 , we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair values for these investments of approximately $20.4 million . the financial turmoil that affected the banking system and financial markets and increased the possibility that financial institutions might consolidate or go out of business resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of financial institutions, which may negatively impact our treasury operations. other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. volatility in the financial markets and economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. as of january 27, 2013 , our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 56% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 19% of our total investment portfolio. substantially all of our investments are with a/a2 or better rated securities. if the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2%-5%, the fair values of these investments would decline by approximately $49 - $123 million . exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other expense, net in our consolidated financial statements and to date have not been significant. the impact of foreign currency transaction gain (loss) included in determining net income for fiscal years 2013 , 2012 and 2011 was $(1.5) million , $1.6 million and $(2.4) million, respectively. currently, sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. 56 table of contents we may enter into certain transactions such as forward contracts which are designed to reduce the future potential impact resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. there were no forward exchange contracts outstanding at january 27, 2013 .risk factors 13 risk factors - risks related to regulatory, legal, our common stock and other matters - our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities . financial information by reporting segment and geographic data the information included in note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k, including financial information by reporting segment and revenue and long-lived assets by geographic region, is hereby incorporated by reference. for additional detail regarding the risks attendant to our foreign operations see item 1a. risk factors - risks related to our business, industry and partners - we are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. executive officers of the registrant the following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and their positions as of march 7, 2014 : name age position jen-hsun huang 51 president, chief executive officer and director colette m. kress 46 executive vice president and chief financial officer ajay k. puri 59 executive vice president, worldwide sales david m. shannon 58 executive vice president, chief administrative officer and secretary debora shoquist 59 executive vice president, operations jen-hsun huang co-founded nvidia in april 1993 and has served as its president, chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors since its inception. from 1985 to 1993, mr. huang was employed at lsi logic corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions, most recently as director of coreware, the business unit responsible for lsi's system-on-chip strategy. from 1983 to 1985, mr. huang was a microprocessor designer for advanced micro devices, inc., a semiconductor company. mr. huang holds a b.s.e.e. degree from oregon state university and an m.s.e.e. degree from stanford university. colette m. kress joined nvidia in september 2013 as executive vice president and chief financial officer. prior to nvidia, ms. kress most recently served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of the business technology and operations finance organization at cisco systems, inc., a networking equipment company, since 2010. at cisco, ms. kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for all business segments, engineering and operations. from 1997 to 2010 ms. kress held a variety of positions at microsoft corporation, a software company, including, beginning in 2006, chief financial officer of the server and tools division, where ms. kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for the division. prior to joining microsoft, ms. kress spent eight years at texas instruments incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a variety of finance positions. ms. kress holds a b.s. degree in finance from university of arizona and an m.b.a. degree from southern methodist university. 11 table of contents ajay k. puri joined nvidia in december 2005 as senior vice president, worldwide sales and became executive vice president, worldwide sales in january 2009. prior to nvidia, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over a 22-year career at sun microsystems, inc., a computing systems company. mr. puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development positions at hewlett-packard company, an information technology company, booz allen hamilton inc., a management and technology consulting company, and texas instruments. mr. puri holds a b.s.e.e. degree from the university of minnesota, an m.s.e.e. degree from the california institute of technology and an m.b.a. degree from harvard business school. david m. shannon serves as executive vice president, chief administrative officer and secretary of nvidia. in this role, he is responsible for nvidia's legal and human resources functions, as well as intellectual property licensing. mr. shannon joined nvidia in august 2002 as vice president and general counsel. mr. shannon became secretary of nvidia in april 2005, a senior vice president in december 2005 and an executive vice president in january 2009. in january 2013, mr. shannon also became the head of human resources. mr. shannon was promoted to the role of chief administrative officer in january 2014. from 1993 to 2002, mr. shannon held various counsel positions at intel, most recently the position of vice president and assistant general counsel. mr. shannon also practiced for eight years in the law firm of gibson dunn and crutcher, focusing on complex commercial and high-technology related litigation. mr. shannon holds b.a. and j.d. degrees from pepperdine university. debora shoquist joined nvidia in september 2007 as senior vice president of operations and became executive vice president of operations in january 2009. from 2004 to 2007, ms. shoquist served as executive vice president of operations at jds uniphase corporation, a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications industry. from 2002 to 2004, ms. shoquist served as senior vice president and general manager of the electro-optics business at coherent, inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. ms. shoquist's experience includes her role at quantum corporation, a data protection company, as the president of the personal computer hard disk drive division. ms. shoquist's experience also includes senior roles at hewlett-packard. ms. shoquist holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering from kansas state university and a b.s. degree in biology from santa clara university. available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on or through our web site, http://www.nvidia.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission, or the sec. our web site and the information on it or connected to it are not a part of this annual report on form 10-k. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in evaluating nvidia and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves some risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. additionally, any one of the following risks could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. risks related to our business, industry and partners if we are unable to compete in the markets for our products, our financial results will be adversely impacted . the market for our products is extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings, industry standards continue to evolve and others realize the market potential of mobile and consumer products and services. we expect competition to increase from both existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. in addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share. furthermore, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. in addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. in order to effectively compete we may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating results. if we are required to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without a corresponding increase in revenue, our operating results could decline. in order to remain competitive and meet the demands of the markets we serve, we expect to devote a substantial portion of our resources to research and development. our ability to compete will depend on, among other factors, our ability to: continue to keep pace with technological developments; develop and introduce new products, services, technologies and enhancements on a timely basis; transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries; obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials; and succeed in significant foreign markets, such as china and india. if we are unable to compete in our current or new markets, demand for our products could decrease which could cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to suffer. if and to the extent we offer products in new markets, we may face competition from existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. we expect substantial competition from both intel and amd's, strategy of selling platform solutions, including integrating a cpu and a gpu on the same chip or same package, as evidenced by intel's cpus with integrated graphics and amd's apu product. as amd and intel continue to pursue platform solutions and integrated cpus, we may not be able to successfully compete and our business could be negatively impacted. despite the use of these integrated cpus, personal computer, or pc, builders and consumers have continued to embrace discrete gpus to provide higher performance. if integrated cpus offer a more compelling value proposition in the future, pc builders and consumers may move away from the use of discrete gpus, which could adversely affect our business and cause our financial results to decline. we are implementing a business strategy to license our gpu cores and visual computing patent portfolio to device manufacturers. although we have engaged in licensing in the past, we are now engaging a broader market with new and existing competitors who may be able to adapt more quickly to customer requirements and emerging technologies. we cannot be assured of the extent of the demand for licenses to our gpu cores or other elements of our visual computing patent portfolio, or that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors who may have stronger positions in these new markets. 13 table of contents our business results could be adversely affected if the identification and development of new products is delayed or unsuccessful. in order to maintain or improve our financial results, we will need to continue to identify and develop new products and enhancements to our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner. the process of developing new products and services and enhancing existing products and services is highly complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technology trends could adversely affect our business. we must make multi-year investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our new products and technologies. it is possible that our development efforts will not be successful and that our new technologies will not result in meaningful revenues. even if we introduce new and enhanced products to the market, we may not be able to achieve consumer and/or market acceptance of them in a timely manner. our ability to successfully develop and deliver new products will depend on various factors, including our ability to: effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets; timely complete and introduce new products and technologies; transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries; and obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials. we occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements, and we could experience delays in the future. in addition, in the past, we have faced challenges in managing product transitions from older to newer products resulting in obsolete inventory. our failure to successfully develop and introduce new products and technologies or identify new uses for existing or future products could result in rapidly declining average selling prices, reduced demand for our products or loss of market share, any of which could harm our competitive position and cause our revenue, gross margin and overall financial results to suffer. if we are unable to achieve consumer and market acceptance and design wins for our products and technologies, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed. the success of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to achieve consumer and market acceptance of our new products and enhancements to our existing products and identify and enter new markets, such as cloud-based computing appliances, servers, automotive technology, smartphones, tablets, video game consoles, and other similar consumer electronic devices. the markets for our products and technologies are characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in pricing of dynamic random-access memory devices and other changes in the total system cost of add-in boards, or aibs, as well as by severe price competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. broad consumer and market acceptance is difficult to achieve and such consumer and market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition and frequent new technology and product introductions. our success in achieving consumer and market acceptance will depend in part on our ability to cultivate new industry relationships and improve the functionality of our products as the number of internet-connected devices increases. if we do not successfully achieve or maintain consumer and market acceptance for our products and enhancements or identify and enter new markets, our ability to compete and maintain or increase revenues will suffer. we believe achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen for hardware components or subassemblies designed by original equipment manufacturers, or oems, original design manufacturers, or odms, and aib and motherboard manufacturers, is an integral part of our future success. our oem, odm, and aib and motherboard manufacturers' customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles or in connection with trade shows. accordingly, when our customers are making their design decisions, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products in order to be included in our customers' new system configurations. this requires that we: anticipate the features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; 14 table of contents price our products competitively; and introduce products to the market within our customers' limited design cycles. if oems, odms, and aib and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their systems until at least the next design configuration. our ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and be compliant with evolving industry standards. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, we may not be designed into our customers' product designs. however, to be compliant with changes to industry standards, we may have to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products which could negatively impact our gross margin or operating results. if we are unable to achieve new design wins for existing or new customers, we may lose market share and our operating results would be negatively impacted. we depend on foundries to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies or otherwise satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our business . we do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited, or tsmc, to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. a substantial portion of our wafers are supplied by tsmc. the foundries, which have limited capacity, also manufacture products for other semiconductor companies, including some of our competitors. because we do not have long-term commitment contracts with any of these foundries, they do not have an obligation to provide us with any set pricing or minimum quantity of product at any time except as may be provided in a specific purchase order. most of our products are only manufactured by one foundry at a time. in times of high demand, the foundries could choose to prioritize their capacity for other companies, reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, or increase the prices that they charge us. if we are unable to meet customer demand due to reduced or eliminated deliveries or have to increase the prices of our products, we could lose sales to customers, which would negatively impact our revenue and our reputation. furthermore, our third-party foundries may not be able to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, needed to manufacture our products profitably or on a timely basis. if our third-party foundries experience manufacturing inefficiencies, we may fail to achieve acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays. for example, due to capacity constraints at tsmc of our 28 nanometer kepler gpus in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, we were unable to fulfill customer demand for our high-end desktop gpu products, and as our sales mix shifted to our mainstream desktop gpu products, revenue and gross margins for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 were negatively impacted compared to the prior quarter. because the lead-time needed to establish strategic relationships with new manufacturing partners and achieve initial production could be over a year, we do not have a readily available alternative source of supply for our products. in addition, the time and effort to qualify a new foundry would result in additional expense and diversion of resources, and could result in lost sales, any of which would negatively impact our financial results. we believe that long-term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with the third-party manufacturers we use to ensure adequate product supply and competitive pricing to respond to customer demand. failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products could negatively impact our financial results and damage our reputation. manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the manufacturer. low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. we do not know a yield problem exists until our design is manufactured. when a yield issue is identified, the product is analyzed and tested to determine the cause. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process. resolution of yield problems requires cooperation by, and communication between, us and the manufacturer. because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry capacity, decreases in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. lower than expected yields could potentially harm customer relationships, our reputation and our financial results. 15 table of contents a decline in demand in certain end-user markets could decrease the demand for our products and harm our results of operations. our customer base includes companies in a wide range of end-user markets, but we generate a significant amount of revenue from sales to consumers of communications- and pc-related products. within these end-user markets, a large portion of our revenue is generated from sales to consumers in the smartphone, tablet and pc markets, including professional workstations. decline in one or several of these end-user markets could harm demand for our products and our results of operations and financial condition. these declines could be large and sudden. because smartphone, tablet and pc manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they incorrectly forecast product transitions. in these cases, these manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inventory from suppliers like us until their excess inventory has been absorbed, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. we sell our products to a limited number of customers and our business could suffer if we lose any of these customers. we receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. revenue from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total revenue, was approximately 21% of our total revenue from two customers in fiscal year 2014 and approximately 13% and 11% of our total revenue from one customer in fiscal years 2013 and 2012, respectively. approximately 23% of our accounts receivable balance was from one customer as of january 26, 2014, and approximately 40% of our accounts receivable balance was from three customers as of january 27, 2013. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments and obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to certain customers. in the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results and as a result of the tightening of the credit markets, we may not be able to acquire credit insurance on the credit we extend to these customers or in amounts that we deem sufficient. revenue from our largest customer has fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, as well as the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and will likely continue to fluctuate dramatically in the future. our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. in the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; our customers may develop their own solutions; our customers may purchase products from our competitors; or our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. the loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations and any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could harm our operating results and financial condition. 16 table of contents if we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, our business and profitability could be harmed. to achieve our business objectives, it may be necessary from time to time for us to expand or contract our operations. in the future, we may not be able to scale our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. in that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expected, the rate of increase in our costs and operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, which would adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if such demand does not materialize at the pace which we expect, we may be required to scale down our business through expense and headcount reductions as well as facility consolidations or closures that could result in restructuring charges that would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. because many of our expenses are fixed in the short-term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any decrease in customer demand. if customer demand does not increase as anticipated, our profitability could be adversely affected due to our higher expense levels. our past growth has placed, and any future long-term growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. to implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. all of these endeavors require substantial management effort. if we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our costs and expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would harm our results of operations. our revenue may fluctuate while a majority of our operating expenses are a factor of multi-year investments ahead of when revenue is received, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. our operating expenses are primarily related to multi-year research and development investments ahead of the revenue received from the products which are produced. our research and development expenses totaled $1.34 billion , $1.15 billion , and $1.00 billion in fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. any one or more of the risks discussed in this annual report on form 10-k or other factors could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income. accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. similarly, the results of any quarterly or full fiscal year period are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for a subsequent quarter or a full fiscal year. as a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. we believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may continue to be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations. because our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, our failure to forecast changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our gross margin. we are focused on improving our gross margin. our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, including: the mix of our products sold; average selling prices; introduction of new products; product transitions; sales discounts; unexpected pricing actions by our competitors; 17 table of contents the cost of product components; and the yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our products. if we do not correctly forecast the impact of any of the relevant factors on our business, there may not be any actions we can take or we may not be able to take any possible actions in time to counteract any negative impact on our gross margin. in addition, if we are unable to meet our gross margin target for any period or the target set by analysts, the trading price of our common stock may decline. our failure to estimate customer demand properly could adversely affect our financial results. we manufacture our products based on forecasts of customer demand in order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers. as a result, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur or may build inventory anticipating demand for a product that does not materialize. in forecasting demand, we make multiple assumptions any of which may prove to be incorrect. situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include: changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in the semiconductor industry and/or overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market, expectations for inflation, and energy prices; if there were a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements; if we fail to estimate customer demand properly for our older products as our newer products are introduced; or if our competition were to take unexpected competitive pricing actions. any inability to sell products to which we have devoted resources could harm our business. in addition, cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margin and restrict our ability to fund operations. additionally, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. we could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding inventory write-downs and/or a reduction in average selling prices if growth slows or does not materialize, or if we incorrectly forecast product demand, which could negatively impact our financial results. conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our third-party manufacturing partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production for us meaning that we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill our customers' orders on a timely basis. even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost effective or timely manner. inability to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, could damage our customer relationships, result in lost revenue, cause a loss in market share, impact our customer relationships or damage our reputation, any of which could adversely impact our business. 18 table of contents we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. we have acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products and business. we may enter into future acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, in order to complement or expand our current businesses or enter into a new business market. negotiations associated with an acquisition or strategic investment could divert management's attention and other company resources. any of the following risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results: difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business; difficulty in operating in a new or multiple new locations; disruption of our ongoing businesses or the ongoing business of the company we invest in or acquire; difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; difficulty integrating the target's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; diversion of capital and other resources; assumption of liabilities; incurring acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets that could impact our operating results; incurring impairment charges related to goodwill and other purchased intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions or investments; diversion of resources and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or investments; potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development, or legal and financial contingencies, among other things; difficulties in entering into new markets in which we have limited or no experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger positions; potential inability to obtain, or obtain in a timely manner, approvals from governmental authorities, which could delay or prevent such acquisitions or investments; and impairment of relationships with employees, vendors and customers, or the loss of any of our key employees, vendors or customers or our target's key employees, vendors or customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. 19 table of contents we may be required to record a charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, which could negatively impact our operating results. under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, or u.s. gaap, we review our amortizable intangible assets and goodwill for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually. the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable assets from acquisitions may not be recoverable due to factors such as a decline in stock price and market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry or in any of our reporting units. estimates of future cash flows are based on an updated long-term financial outlook of our operations. however, actual performance in the near-term or long-term could be materially different from these forecasts, which could impact future estimates. for example, in the most recent impairment test of our tegra processor reporting unit, the fair value of the reporting unit only exceeded its carrying value by 17%. if the future operating results of the tegra processor reporting unit are significantly lower than our estimates, the goodwill assigned to tegra processor could be impaired, which would negatively impact our results of operations. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price . experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business and third party business. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our partners or customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our partners and customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. for example, in july 2012, unauthorized third parties gained access to certain user information on our online forums. we have strengthened security in an effort to minimize future attacks. however, hackers may continue to target our security controls in the future, and we cannot guarantee that our security measures will be able to prevent future breaches of our website and/or attacks on our products. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions of service or produce errors in connection with systemic failures, systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. we may not be able to attract and retain qualified employees which could negatively impact our business. our future success and ability to compete are substantially dependent on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified key personnel. the market for key employees in the technology industry can be competitive. none of our key employees is bound by an employment agreement, meaning our relationships with all of our key employees are at will. the loss of the services of any of our key employees could delay our product development efforts, harm our ability to sell our products or otherwise negatively impact our business. 20 table of contents we are dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, which reduces our control over our product delivery schedule, product quantity or product quality. our products are assembled, tested and packaged by independent subcontractors, such as advanced semiconductor engineering, inc., chippac, jsi logistics, ltd., king yuan electronics co. and siliconware precision industries co. ltd. as a result, we do not directly control our product delivery schedules, product quantity, or product quality. all of these subcontractors assemble, test and package products for other companies, including some of our competitors. because we do not have long-term agreements with our subcontractors, when demand for subcontractors to assemble, test or package products is high, our subcontractors may decide to prioritize the orders of other customers over our orders. because the time required to qualify a different subcontractor to assemble, test or package our products can be lengthy, if we have to find a replacement subcontractor we could experience significant delays in shipments of our products, product shortages, a decrease in the quality of our products, or an increase in product cost. any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture, assembly or testing of our products, which could cause our gross margin to decline. we rely on third-party vendors to supply software development tools to us for the development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools necessary to develop or enhance new or existing products. we rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements. to bring new products or product enhancements to market in a timely manner, or at all, we need software development tools that are sophisticated enough or technologically advanced enough to complete our design, simulations and verifications. in the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. in the future, the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. unavailability of software development tools may result in our missing design cycles or losing design wins, either of which could result in a loss of market share or negatively impact our operating results. because of the importance of software development tools to the development and enhancement of our products, a critical component of our product development efforts is our partnerships with leaders in the computer-aided design industry, including cadence design systems, inc. and synopsys, inc. we have invested significant resources to develop relationships with these industry leaders and have often assisted them in the development of their new products. we believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3d graphics, communications and networking segments and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. if these relationships are not successful, we may be unable to develop new products or product enhancements in a timely manner, which could result in a loss of market share, a decrease in revenue or a negative impact on our operating results. if our products contain significant defects, our financial results could be negatively impacted, our reputation could be damaged and we could lose market share. our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. if any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. such efforts could divert our engineers' attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. in addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including our customers' costs to repair or replace products in the field. a product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, could damage our reputation, could result in the shifting of business to our competitors and could result in litigation against us. costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. 21 table of contents our business is cyclical in nature and has experienced severe downturns that have harmed, and may in the future harm, our business and financial results. our business is directly affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry. the semiconductor industry has been adversely affected by many factors, including the global downturn that started in the second half of 2008, ongoing efforts by our customers to reduce their spending, diminished product demand, increased inventory levels, lower average selling prices, uncertainty regarding long-term growth rates and underlying financial health and increased competition. these factors could, among other things, limit our ability to maintain or increase our sales or recognize revenue and in turn adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if our actions to reduce our operating expenses to sufficiently offset these factors when they occur are unsuccessful, our operating results will suffer. we are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. we conduct our business worldwide and we have offices in various countries outside of the united states. our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the united states and other americas. we generated 75% , 74% and 78% of our revenue for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, from sales to customers outside the united states and other americas. the manufacture, assembly, test and packaging of our products outside of the united states, operation of offices outside of the united states, and sales to customers internationally subjects us to a number of risks, including: international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; complying with a variety of foreign laws; differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anticorruption laws and regulations; inadequate local infrastructure that could result in business disruptions; exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition of additional taxes and penalties; increased costs due to imposition of climate change regulations, such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits; and other factors beyond our control such as terrorism, cyber attack, civil unrest, war and diseases. if sales to any of our customers outside of the united states and other americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. our international operations are subject to many of the above listed risks. difficulties with our international operations, including finding appropriate staffing and office space, may divert management's attention and other resources, any of which could negatively impact our operating results. 22 table of contents legal and regulatory requirements differ among jurisdictions worldwide. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. although we have policies, controls, and procedures designed to ensure compliance with foreign laws, many of these laws and regulations are ambiguous and are often interpreted and enforced in unpredictable ways. the economic conditions in our primary overseas markets, particularly in asia, may negatively impact the demand for our products abroad. all of our international sales to date have been denominated in united states dollars. accordingly, an increase in the value of the united states dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products less competitive in international markets or require us to assume the risk of denominating certain sales in foreign currencies. we anticipate that these factors will impact our business to a greater degree as we further expand our international business activities. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, a majority of our principal it data centers are located in california, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in this geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including taiwan, china and korea. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. however, in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer. our investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the capital markets. our cash equivalent and marketable securities portfolio as of january 26, 2014 consisted of cash and cash equivalents, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, asset-backed securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. we follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines, designed to preserve principal, minimize risk, and monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. the policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes, and a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, asset-backed securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. should financial market conditions worsen in the future, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from market liquidity and credit concerns. in addition, any deterioration of the capital markets could cause our other income and expense to vary from expectations. as of january 26, 2014, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio, and although we believe our current investment portfolio has very little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, or credit availability, and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. risks related to regulatory, legal, our common stock and other matters our common stock price has at times experienced substantial price volatility and, as a result, investors may suffer losses . our stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between our actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by us and our competitors, or uncertainty about current global economic conditions. the stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance. 23 table of contents in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. due to changes in the volatility of our stock price, we have been in the past and may be in the future the target of securities litigation. such lawsuits generally result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. we are subject to litigation which, if determined adversely to us, could harm our business. we are engaged in litigation with parties related to our acquisition of 3dfx in 2001. in addition, in september, october and november 2008, several putative securities class action lawsuits were filed against us for alleged defects in our previous generation mcp and gpu products. please refer to note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for further details on these lawsuits. there can be no assurance that any litigation to which we are a party will be resolved in our favor. any claim that is successfully decided against us may cause us to pay substantial damages, including punitive damages, and other related fees or prevent us from selling or importing certain of our products. regardless of whether lawsuits are resolved in our favor or if we are the plaintiff or the defendant in the litigation, any lawsuits to which we are a party will likely be expensive and time consuming to defend or resolve. such lawsuits could result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. such lawsuits could also harm our relationships with existing customers and result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. actions to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, such as litigation to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights or to enforce our intellectual property rights, could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we fail to take such actions or are unsuccessful in doing so. we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. we have numerous patents issued, allowed and pending in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. our patents and pending patent applications primarily relate to our products and the technology used in connection with our products. we also rely on international treaties, organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as: the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors' operations in particular countries and regions; the location in which our products are manufactured; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. in addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged, invalidated, infringed, circumvented or misappropriated by third parties. we expect that as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases and as competition intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims and lawsuits may increase. we may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us or parties that we have agreed to indemnify for certain claims of infringement. third parties may also claim that our employees have misappropriated or divulged their former employers' trade secrets or confidential information. an unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. 24 table of contents in addition, in the future, we may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property; enforce our patents; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. if we have to initiate litigation in order to protect our intellectual property, our operating expenses may increase which could negatively impact our operating results. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. if infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third parties' patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third parties' patent or other intellectual property rights. however, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. if we or one of our indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. we may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. changes in united states tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could adversely impact our business. currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the united states, and a significant portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the united states. united states income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain non-united states subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. throughout the period of president obama's administration, the white house has proposed various international tax measures, some of which, if enacted into law, would substantially reduce our ability to defer united states taxes on such indefinitely reinvested non-united states earnings, eliminate certain tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the united states and/or otherwise cause the total tax cost of u.s. multinational corporations to increase. if these or similar proposals are constituted into legislation in the current or future year(s), they could have a negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. our operating results may be adversely affected if we are subject to unexpected tax liabilities. we are subject to taxation by a number of taxing authorities both in the united states and throughout the world. tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for our income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, any of the below could cause our effective tax rate to be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in stock-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the united states or abroad or the issuance of new interpretative accounting guidance related to transactions and calculations where the tax treatment was previously uncertain; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. 25 table of contents should additional taxes be assessed as a result of any of the above, our operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws or changes in the interpretation of tax laws. we are subject to the risks of owning real property. during fiscal year 2009, we purchased real property in santa clara, california that includes approximately 36 acres of land and twelve commercial buildings and eventually expect to break ground on a new building for a corporate headquarters campus in santa clara. we also own real property in india. we have limited experience in the ownership and management of real property and are subject to the risks of owning real property, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with mitigating any environmental problems; adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the market in which the property is located, or other factors; the risk of loss if we decide to sell and are not able to recover all capitalized costs; increased cash commitments for the planned construction of our santa clara campus; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements; increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property or both; possible disputes with third parties, such as neighboring owners or others, related to the buildings or the property or both; and the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and or other natural disasters. expensing employee equity compensation adversely affects our operating results and could also adversely affect our competitive position. since inception, we have used equity through our equity incentive plans and our employee stock purchase program as a fundamental component of our compensation packages. we believe that these programs directly motivate our employees and, through the use of vesting, encourage our employees to remain with us. we record compensation expense for stock options, restricted stock units and our employee stock purchase plan using the fair value of those awards in accordance with u.s. gaap. stock-based compensation expense was $136.3 million , $136.7 million and $136.4 million for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, related to on-going vesting of equity awards, which negatively impacted our operating results. to the extent that expensing employee equity compensation makes it more expensive to grant stock options and restricted stock units or to continue to have an employee stock purchase program, we may decide to incur increased cash compensation costs. in addition, actions that we may take to reduce stock-based compensation expense that may be more severe than any actions our competitors may implement and may make it difficult to attract retain and motivate employees, which could adversely affect our competitive position as well as our business and operating results. 26 table of contents we have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations . in december 2013, we issued $1.5 billion of 1.00% convertible senior notes due 2018, or 1.00% notes. our substantial indebtedness may: limit our ability to use our cash flow or borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes; make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. the exercise of warrants issued to goldman, sachs &amp; co., or goldman, concurrently with our 1.00% notes would, and the conversion of our 1.00% notes could, dilute the ownership interest of our existing stockholders . the warrants issued concurrently with our 1.00% notes shall be deemed to be automatically exercised on certain dates between march 2019 and june 2019, unless goldman notifies us otherwise. any issuance by us of additional shares to goldman upon exercise of the warrants will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. moreover, the conversion of our 1.00% notes may dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders and could have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of the 1.00% notes. any sales in the public market by goldman of our common stock upon exercise of the warrants or sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the 1.00% notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities. we are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. although our management systems are designed to maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. if we violate or fail to comply with any of them, a range of consequences could result, including fines, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. we could also be held liable for any and all consequences arising out of exposure to hazardous materials used, stored, released, disposed of by us or located at, under or emanating from our facilities or other environmental or natural resource damage. environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. for example, the european union and china are two among a growing number of jurisdictions that have enacted in recent years restrictions on the use of lead, among other chemicals, in electronic products. these regulations affect semiconductor packaging. there is a risk that the cost, quality and manufacturing yields of lead-free products may be less favorable compared to lead-based products or that the transition to lead-free products may produce sudden changes in demand, which may result in excess inventory. 27 table of contents there is also a movement to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals coming from the areas of conflict. recent u.s. legislation includes sec disclosure requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries, for which the first report is due on may 31, 2014 for the 2013 calendar year. the implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices. as a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. furthermore, we may incur additional costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals in our products. also, because our supply chain is complex, we may be unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products, resulting in reputational challenges with our customers and stockholders. some customers may require that all of our products are certified to be conflict-free; if we cannot satisfy these customers, they may choose a competitor's products. although we expect to be able to file the required report on time, we are dependent upon the information provided by our many suppliers. to the extent that the information we receive from our suppliers is inaccurate or inadequate or our processes in obtaining such information do not fulfill the sec's diligence requirements, we could also face sec enforcement risks. future environmental legal requirements may become more stringent or costly and our compliance costs and potential liabilities arising from past and future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances may harm our business and our reputation. while we believe that we have adequate internal control over financial reporting, if we or our independent registered public accounting firm determines that we do not, our reputation may be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, or section 404, requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to audit, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. however, the manner in which companies and their independent public accounting firms apply these requirements and test companies' internal controls remains subject to some judgment. to date, we have incurred, and we expect to continue to incur, increased expense and to devote additional management resources to section 404 compliance. despite our efforts, if we identify a material weakness in our internal controls, there can be no assurance that we will be able to remediate that material weakness in a timely manner, or that we will be able to maintain all of the controls necessary to determine that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. in the event that our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards could affect our reported results of operations. we prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with u.s. gaap. these principles are constantly subject to review and interpretation by the sec and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. a change in these principles, or the interpretation of them, can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. additionally, changes in existing accounting rules, such as the possible upcoming changes to revenue recognition and lease accounting standards, or changes in practices, such as changes to auditing standards promulgated by the public company accounting oversight board, could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft corporation could delay or prevent a change in control. our status as a delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the delaware general corporation law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. in addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of our board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior stockholder approval; the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; 28 table of contents a classified board of directors, which will become fully declassified from and after our 2014 annual meeting of stockholders; advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals; the ability of our board of directors to increase or decrease the number of directors without stockholder approval; a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; the elimination of the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; and the ability of our board of directors to make, amend or repeal our bylaws. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investment and interest rate risk as of january 26, 2014 and january 27, 2013 , we had $4.67 billion and $3.73 billion , respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, asset-backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. as of january 26, 2014 , we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. our investments are denominated in united states dollars. 53 table of contents all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale. investments in both fixed and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in securities market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in our consolidated statements of income due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in value are determined to be other-than-temporary. these securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders' equity, net of tax. as of january 26, 2014 , we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair values for these investments of approximately $21.5 million . other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. volatility in the financial markets and economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. as of january 26, 2014 , our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 42% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 27% of our total investment portfolio. substantially all of our investments are with a/a3 or better rated securities. if the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2%-5%, the fair values of these investments would decline by approximately $56 - $140 million . exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other expense, net in our consolidated financial statements and to date have not been significant. the impact of foreign currency transaction gain (loss) included in determining net income for fiscal years 2014 , 2013 and 2012 was $4.7 million , $(1.5) million and $1.6 million, respectively. currently, sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. we may enter into certain transactions such as forward contracts which are designed to reduce the future potential impact resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. there were no forward exchange contracts outstanding at january 26, 2014 .risk factors 12 risk factors - risks related to our business, industry and partners - we are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations which may harm our business. executive officers of the registrant the following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and positions as of march 6, 2015 : name age position jen-hsun huang 52 president, chief executive officer and director colette m. kress 47 executive vice president and chief financial officer ajay k. puri 60 executive vice president, worldwide field operations david m. shannon 59 executive vice president, chief administrative officer and secretary debora shoquist 60 executive vice president, operations jen-hsun huang co-founded nvidia in april 1993 and has served as its president, chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors since its inception. from 1985 to 1993, mr. huang was employed at lsi logic corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions including as director of coreware, the business unit responsible for lsi's system-on-chip . from 1983 to 1985, mr. huang was a microprocessor designer for advanced micro devices, inc., a semiconductor company. mr. huang holds a b.s.e.e. degree from oregon state university and an m.s.e.e. degree from stanford university. 10 table of contents colette m. kress joined nvidia in september 2013 as executive vice president and chief financial officer. prior to nvidia, ms. kress most recently served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of the business technology and operations finance organization at cisco systems, inc., a networking equipment company, since 2010. at cisco, ms. kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for all business segments, engineering and operations. from 1997 to 2010 ms. kress held a variety of positions at microsoft corporation, a software company, including, beginning in 2006, chief financial officer of the server and tools division, where ms. kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for the division. prior to joining microsoft, ms. kress spent eight years at texas instruments incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a variety of finance positions. ms. kress holds a b.s. degree in finance from university of arizona and an m.b.a. degree from southern methodist university. ajay k. puri joined nvidia in december 2005 as senior vice president, worldwide sales and became executive vice president, worldwide sales (subsequently renamed to worldwide field operations) in january 2009. prior to nvidia, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over a 22-year career at sun microsystems, inc., a computing systems company. mr. puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development positions at hewlett-packard company, an information technology company, booz allen hamilton inc., a management and technology consulting company, and texas instruments. mr. puri holds a b.s.e.e. degree from the university of minnesota, an m.s.e.e. degree from the california institute of technology and an m.b.a. degree from harvard business school. david m. shannon serves as executive vice president, chief administrative officer and secretary of nvidia. in this role, he is responsible for nvidia's legal and human resources functions, as well as intellectual property licensing. mr. shannon joined nvidia in august 2002 as vice president and general counsel. mr. shannon became secretary of nvidia in april 2005, a senior vice president in december 2005 and an executive vice president in january 2009. in january 2013, mr. shannon also became the head of human resources. mr. shannon was promoted to the role of chief administrative officer in january 2014. from 1993 to 2002, mr. shannon held various counsel positions at intel, most recently the position of vice president and assistant general counsel. mr. shannon also practiced for eight years in the law firm of gibson dunn and crutcher, focusing on complex commercial and high-technology related litigation. mr. shannon holds b.a. and j.d. degrees from pepperdine university. debora shoquist joined nvidia in september 2007 as senior vice president of operations and became executive vice president of operations in january 2009. from 2004 to 2007, ms. shoquist served as executive vice president of operations at jds uniphase corporation, a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications industry. from 2002 to 2004, ms. shoquist served as senior vice president and general manager of the electro-optics business at coherent, inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. ms. shoquist's experience includes her role at quantum corporation, a data protection company, as the president of the personal computer hard disk drive division. ms. shoquist's experience also includes senior roles at hewlett-packard. ms. shoquist holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering from kansas state university and a b.s. degree in biology from santa clara university. available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on or through our web site, http://www.nvidia.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission, or the sec. our web site and the information on it or connected to it are not a part of this annual report on form 10-k. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in evaluating nvidia and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business. risks related to our business, industry and partners if we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets, our revenue and financial results will be adversely impacted . nvidia-branded products and services are visual computing platforms that address four large markets: gaming, enterprise, high performance computing &amp; cloud, and automotive. our gpus and tegra processors are designed to meet the evolving needs of these markets; however, these markets remain extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product and/or service offerings, industry standards continue to evolve and new competitors enter these markets. our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify and develop new products, services and technologies, and enhancements to our existing products, services and technologies, in a timely and cost-effective manner and to achieve consumer and market acceptance of our products, services and technologies. if we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets, including in significant international markets, such as china, demand for our products, services and technologies could decrease which would cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to suffer. in addition, if we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our target markets and emerging technology trends, our business will be harmed. our competitors' products, services and technologies may be less costly, or their products, services and technologies may offer superior functionality or different features than ours. in addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater financial, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. these competitors may be able to more effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets, quickly transition their semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries and obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials, which could harm our business. if we fail to achieve design wins for our products our business will be harmed. for our products that we do not sell directly to consumers, achieving design wins is an integral part of our future success. our oem, odm, and aib and motherboard manufacturers' customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles or in connection with trade shows. if oems, odms, and aib and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their systems until at least the next design configuration. in order to achieve design wins, we must: anticipate the features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; and price our products competitively. in general, we are limited in our ability to introduce new products and enhancements to our customers' design cycles and we must maintain compliance with evolving industry standards. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. 12 table of contents if our intellectual property licensing strategy is not successful, our licensing revenues may decline. we intend to license our gpu cores and visual computing patent portfolio to device manufacturers who offer products in markets such as mobile. the extent of the demand to license our gpu cores or other elements of our visual computing patent portfolio is unknown and may be limited. in addition, we may not be able to renew our existing license agreements. in january 2011, we entered into a patent cross licensing agreement under which intel agreed to pay us an aggregate of $1.50 billion over six years. the final $200.0 million payment under this agreement is scheduled to be received in january 2016, and recognized as revenue into the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. if we are unable to enter into new licensing agreements or renew our existing agreements, and these agreements are not offset by other growth in income, our financial results may be adversely affected. if our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged and we could lose market share. our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive industry. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to the products we sell directly to customers, the end product in which our device has been integrated by oems, odms, aibs and tier 1 automotive suppliers, and to the user of such end product. any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, cause us to lose market share, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue. in addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins and harm our relationships with customers. also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including our customers' costs to repair or replace products in the field. a product recall, particularly an automotive recall, or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, could damage our reputation, could result in the shifting of business to our competitors and could result in litigation against us such as product liability suits. if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. system security and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce our expected revenue and increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation. security breaches, computer malware and cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. these attacks have occurred on our systems in the past and may occur in the future. experienced computer programmers, hackers and employees may be able to penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information, or that of our employees or third parties. these attacks may create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. these hackers may also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities in our products. for portions of our it infrastructure, including business management and communication software products, we rely on products and services provided by third parties. these providers may also experience breaches and attacks to their products which may impact our systems. data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, such as actions by an employee with access to our systems. actual or perceived breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our partners, our customers or third parties could expose us, our partners, our customers, third parties or the individuals affected, to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability, damage to our brand and reputation or other harm to our business. our efforts to prevent and overcome these challenges could increase our expenses and may not be successful. we may experience interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other critical functions. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers as a result of these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. 13 table of contents we depend on third parties and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test and/or package our products, which reduces our control over product quantity and quality, development, enhancement and product delivery schedule and could harm our business . we do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our gpus and tegra processors and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited and samsung electronics co. ltd., to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. similarly, we do not assemble, test or package our products, but instead rely on independent subcontractors, such as advanced semiconductor engineering, inc., byd auto co., ltd., hon hai precision industry co., ltd., jsi logistics, ltd., king yuan electronics co. and siliconware precision industries co. ltd. we do not have long-term commitment contracts with these foundries or subcontractors. as a result, we face several significant risks which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demands and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results, including: a lack of guaranteed supply of wafers and other components and potential higher wafer and component prices due to supply constraints; a failure by our foundries to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products; a failure to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, needed to manufacture our products profitably or on a timely basis; loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or subcontractor and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier; a lack of direct control over delivery schedules or product quantity and quality; and delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or higher expenses in the event our subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors orders over our orders or otherwise. we also rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements. to bring new products and enhancements to market in a timely manner, we utilize sophisticated and technologically advanced software development tools to complete our design, simulations and verifications. in the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products and enhancements as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. in the future, the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. if we miss design cycles or lose design wins due to the unavailability of such software development tools, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline. if our products fail to achieve expected manufacturing yields, our financial results could be adversely impacted and our reputation with our customers may be harmed. manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the foundry. low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. we do not know whether a yield problem will exist until our design is actually manufactured by the foundry. when a yield issue is identified, the product is analyzed and tested to determine the cause. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the manufacturing process and require us and the foundry to cooperate to resolve the problem. because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry capacity, any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in higher manufacturing costs and require us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. lower than expected yields could harm customer relationships, our reputation and our financial results. 14 table of contents business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and increase our costs and expenses. any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, a majority of our principal it datacenters are located in california, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in this geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including taiwan, china and korea. our operations could be harmed if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. in the event of a major earthquake or other natural disaster or catastrophic event, our revenue could decline and our business may be harmed. we receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers and our revenue could decline if we lose any of these customers. we receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. revenue from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total revenue, was 11% of our total revenue from one customer in fiscal year 2015, 21% of our total revenue from two customers in fiscal year 2014, and 13% of our total revenue from one customer in fiscal year 2013. the percentage of revenue we receive from our largest customers has fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, as well as the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our gpus and tegra processors. in the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; our customers may develop their own solutions; our customers may purchase products from our competitors; or our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. the loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in purchases by them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations and any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could harm our operating results and financial condition. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of certain of our customers to make required payments and obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to these customers. in the future, we may have to record additional provisions or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results and we may not be able to acquire credit insurance on the credit we extend to these customers or in amounts that we deem sufficient. our gross margin depends on a number of factors and changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our gross margin. our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, including the mix of our products sold, average selling prices, introduction of new products, product transitions, sales discounts, pricing actions by our competitors, the cost of product components and the yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our products. we are focused on improving our gross margin and if we are not able to control or estimate the impact of the above factors or other factors we do not foresee, our gross margins may be negatively impacted. in addition, gross margins for our tegra processors are lower than our overall corporate gross margins. if tegra processors comprise a higher percentage of our future revenue, or if we continue to enter into new business areas with comparatively lower margins, our overall gross margins may decline. 15 table of contents if we fail to estimate customer demand properly our financial results could be harmed. we manufacture our gpus and tegra processors based on estimates of customer demand. in order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur, or may build inventory anticipating demand for a customer's product that does not materialize. in estimating demand, we make multiple assumptions any of which may prove to be incorrect. situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include: changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in our target markets and/or overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market; a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology or customer requirements; our introduction of new products resulting in lower demand for older products ; or increased competition, including competitive pricing actions. in addition, the cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. we could be required to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or market or write-off excess inventory, and we could experience a reduction in average selling prices if we incorrectly forecast product demand, any of which could harm our financial results. conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our foundry partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill customers' orders on a timely basis. even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely manner. if we fail to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, our customer relationships could be damaged, we could lose revenue and market share and our reputation could be damaged. we are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations which may harm our business. we conduct our business worldwide and we have offices in various countries outside of the united states. our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the united states and other americas. we also generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales to customers outside the united states and other americas. revenue from sales to customers outside of the united states and other americas accounted for 75% of total revenue for both fiscal year 2015 and 2014 and 74% of total revenue for fiscal year 2013. the global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anticorruption laws and regulations; exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and foreign exchange rate fluctuations; and increased costs due to imposition of climate change regulations, such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits. if sales to any of our customers outside of the united states and other americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. 16 table of contents we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. we have in the past and intend to continue to acquire and invest in other businesses that offer products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products and business. any of the following risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results: difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business; diversion of capital and other resources, including management's attention; assumption of liabilities; incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of acquired assets; potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development, or legal and financial contingencies, among other things; and impairment of relationships with employees, vendors and customers, or the loss of any of our key employees, vendors or customers or our target's key employees, vendors or customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. risks related to regulatory, legal, our common stock and other matters actions to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, such as litigation to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights or to enforce our intellectual property rights, could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we fail to take such actions or are unsuccessful in doing so. we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements, and the laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing and new innovations and technologies, but cannot be certain whether our applications for such protections will be approved, and, if approved, whether we will be able to enforce such protections. we have in the past and may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us, our employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify for certain claims of infringement. an unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. we may commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to protect our intellectual property rights. such proceedings may increase our operating expenses, which could negatively impact our operating results. further, we could be subject to countersuits as a result of our initiation of litigation. for example, in september 2014, we filed complaints against qualcomm, inc. and various samsung entities with both the itc and the united states district court for the district of delaware for infringement of seven patents relating to graphics processing. in november 2014, various samsung entities filed a complaint against us and velocity micro for alleged infringement of samsung's patents. if infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third parties' patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third parties' patent or other intellectual property rights. however, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. if we or one of our indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. we may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. 17 table of contents our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline. our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future continue to fluctuate due to numerous factors. for example, our operating expenses represent a significant portion of total revenue and are largely independent of revenue in any particular period. in particular, our research and development expenses reflect multi-year commitments to the development of new products and enhancements that will not result in revenue, if any, until future periods. therefore, investors should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. factors that could affect our results of operations in the future include: demand and market acceptance for our products and/or our customers' products; the successful development and volume production of our next-generation products; our inability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to multi-year development cycle for some of our products and services; new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors; our introduction of new products in accordance with oems' design requirements and design cycles; changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our customers' products; the level of growth or decline of the pc industry in general; seasonal fluctuations associated with the pc and consumer products market; contraction in automotive and consumer end-market demand due to adverse regional or worldwide economic conditions; slower than expected growth of demand for new technologies; fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields; our ability to reduce the manufacturing costs of our products; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues; rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders; the loss of a significant customer; substantial disruption in the operations of our foundries or other third-party subcontractors, as a result of a natural disaster, equipment failure, terrorism or other causes; supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our customers' products, including memory devices; costs associated with the repair and replacement of defective products; unexpected inventory write-downs or write-offs; legal and other costs related to defending intellectual property and other types of lawsuits; availability of software and technology licenses at commercially reasonable terms for the continued sale or development of new products; customer bad debt write-offs; changes in our effective tax rate as a result of changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, applicable tax laws or interpretations of tax laws; any unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities; unexpected costs related to our ownership of real property; costs to comply with new government regulations, such as the sec's conflict mineral regulations, and regulatory enforcement actions; costs to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; our inability to forecast changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards; and general macroeconomic events and factors affecting the overall semiconductor industry. any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future financial results. any such failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors or security analysts could cause our stock price to decline or experience substantial price volatility and, as a result, investors may suffer losses. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. we have been in the past, and may be in the future, the target of securities litigation. such lawsuits generally result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. 18 table of contents we have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations . in december 2013, we issued $1.5 billion of 1.00% convertible senior notes due 2018, or 1.00% notes. our substantial indebtedness may: limit our ability to use our cash flow or borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes; make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. the exercise of warrants issued to goldman, sachs &amp; co. concurrently with our 1.00% notes would, and the conversion of our 1.00% notes could, dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders . the warrants issued concurrently with our 1.00% notes will be deemed to be automatically exercised on certain dates between march 2019 and june 2019, unless goldman, sachs &amp; co. notifies us otherwise. any issuance by us of additional shares to goldman, sachs &amp; co. upon exercise of the warrants will dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. in addition, the conversion of our 1.00% notes will dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders and could have a dilutive effect on our net income per share to the extent that the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of the 1.00% notes. any sales in the public market by goldman, sachs &amp; co. of our common stock upon exercise of the warrants or sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the 1.00% notes could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft corporation could delay or prevent a change in control. our status as a delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the delaware general corporation law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested shareholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. in addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of our board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior shareholder approval; the prohibition of shareholder action by written consent; advance notice requirements for director nominations and shareholder proposals; the ability of our board of directors to increase or decrease the number of directors without shareholder approval; a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; the inability of our shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and the ability of our board of directors to make, amend or repeal our bylaws. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investment and interest rate risk as of january 25, 2015 and january 26, 2014 , we had $4.62 billion and $4.67 billion , respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, debt securities of corporations and united states government and its agencies, asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, money market funds and foreign government bonds. as of january 25, 2015 , we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. all of our investments are denominated in united states dollars. as of january 25, 2015 , we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair values for these investments of $26 million - $28 million . please refer to note 7 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. volatility in the financial markets and economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. as of january 25, 2015 , our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented 35% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for 30% of our total investment portfolio. substantially all of our investments are with a/a3 or better rated securities. if the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2% - 5%, the fair values of these investments could decline by approximately $57 million - $144 million . on december 2, 2013, we issued $1.50 billion of 1.00 % convertible senior notes due 2018, or the notes. the notes are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of the company, which pay interest in cash semi-annually at a rate of 1.00% per annum. we carry the notes at face value less unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. since the notes bear interest at a fixed rate, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. however, the fair value of the notes changes primarily when the market price of our stock fluctuates. exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other expense, net in our consolidated financial statements and to date have not been significant. the impact of foreign currency transaction gain (loss) included in determining net income for fiscal years 2015 , 2014 and 2013 was $0.5 million , $4.7 million and $(1.5) million, respectively. sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. additionally, we have international operations and incur expenditures in currencies other than u.s. dollars. our operating expenses benefit from a stronger dollar and are adversely affected by a weaker dollar. we may enter into certain transactions such as forward contracts which are designed to reduce the future potential impact resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. there were no forward exchange contracts outstanding at january 25, 2015 .risk factors 12 risk factors - risks related to our business, industry and partners - we are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations which may harm our business. executive officers of the registrant the following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and positions as of march 11, 2016 : name age position jen-hsun huang 53 president, chief executive officer and director colette m. kress 48 executive vice president and chief financial officer ajay k. puri 61 executive vice president, worldwide field operations david m. shannon 60 executive vice president, chief administrative officer and secretary debora shoquist 61 executive vice president, operations jen-hsun huang co-founded nvidia in april 1993 and has served as its president, chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors since its inception. from 1985 to 1993, mr. huang was employed at lsi logic corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions including as director of coreware, the business unit responsible for lsi's system-on-chip . from 1983 to 1985, mr. huang was a microprocessor designer for advanced micro devices, inc., a semiconductor company. mr. huang holds a b.s.e.e. degree from oregon state university and an m.s.e.e. degree from stanford university. 10 table of contents colette m. kress joined nvidia in september 2013 as executive vice president and chief financial officer. prior to nvidia, ms. kress most recently served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of the business technology and operations finance organization at cisco systems, inc., a networking equipment company, since 2010. at cisco, ms. kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for all business segments, engineering and operations. from 1997 to 2010 ms. kress held a variety of positions at microsoft corporation, a software company, including, beginning in 2006, chief financial officer of the server and tools division, where ms. kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for the division. prior to joining microsoft, ms. kress spent eight years at texas instruments incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a variety of finance positions. ms. kress holds a b.s. degree in finance from university of arizona and an m.b.a. degree from southern methodist university. ajay k. puri joined nvidia in december 2005 as senior vice president, worldwide sales and became executive vice president, worldwide sales (subsequently renamed to worldwide field operations) in january 2009. prior to nvidia, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over a 22-year career at sun microsystems, inc., a computing systems company. mr. puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development positions at hewlett-packard company, an information technology company, booz allen hamilton inc., a management and technology consulting company, and texas instruments. mr. puri holds a b.s.e.e. degree from the university of minnesota, an m.s.e.e. degree from the california institute of technology and an m.b.a. degree from harvard business school. david m. shannon serves as executive vice president, chief administrative officer and secretary of nvidia. in this role, he is responsible for nvidia's legal and human resources functions, as well as intellectual property licensing. mr. shannon joined nvidia in august 2002 as vice president and general counsel. mr. shannon became secretary of nvidia in april 2005, a senior vice president in december 2005 and an executive vice president in january 2009. in january 2013, mr. shannon also became the head of human resources. mr. shannon was promoted to the role of chief administrative officer in january 2014. from 1993 to 2002, mr. shannon held various counsel positions at intel, most recently the position of vice president and assistant general counsel. mr. shannon also practiced for eight years in the law firm of gibson dunn and crutcher, focusing on complex commercial and high-technology related litigation. mr. shannon holds b.a. and j.d. degrees from pepperdine university. debora shoquist joined nvidia in 2007 as senior vice president of operations and in 2009 became executive vice president of operations. her role has since expanded with responsibility added for facilities in 2013, and for information technology in 2015. prior to nvidia, ms. shoquist served from 2004 to 2007 as executive vice president of operations at jds uniphase corp., a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications industry. she served from 2002 to 2004 as senior vice president and general manager of the electro-optics business at coherent, inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. previously, she worked at quantum corp., a data protection company, as president of the personal computer hard disk drive division, and at hewlett-packard corp. ms. shoquist holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering from kansas state university and a b.s. degree in biology from santa clara university. available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on or through our web site, http://www.nvidia.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission, or the sec. our web site and the information on it or connected to it are not a part of this annual report on form 10-k. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in evaluating nvidia and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business. risks related to our business, industry and partners if we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets, our revenue and financial results will be adversely impacted . nvidia-branded products and services are visual computing platforms that address four large markets: gaming, professional visualization, datacenter, and automotive. our products, services and technologies are designed to meet the evolving needs of these markets; however, these markets remain extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product and/or service offerings, industry standards continue to evolve and new competitors enter these markets. our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to identify and develop new products, services and technologies, and enhancements to our existing products, services and technologies, in a timely and cost-effective manner and to achieve consumer and market acceptance of them. if we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets, including in significant international markets such as china, demand for our products, services and technologies could decrease which would cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to suffer. in addition, if we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our target markets and emerging technology trends, our business will be harmed. our competitors' products, services and technologies may be less costly, or may offer superior functionality or different features than ours. in addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater financial, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. these competitors may be able to more effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets and end user customer trends, quickly transition their semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries and obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials, which could harm our business. if we fail to successfully execute our transitions to new business models and markets, our results of operations could suffer. in connection with our diversification into new business models, we have transformed into a specialized platform company, targeting markets where visual computing is essential and valued. our business strategy is dependent on creating products and services that anticipate customer requirements and emerging industry trends. we cannot assure you that our new strategic direction will result in innovative products and technologies that provide value to our customers and partners. we also devote significant resources to the development of technologies and business offerings in markets where our operating history is less extensive, such as the automotive market. these new offerings and markets may require a considerable investment of technical, financial, compliance, sales and marketing resources. if demand for products and services from these growth markets is below our expectations or if we are not able to improve the cost or operational efficiencies of these new business models, we may not realize benefits from our strategy. alternatively, we may not be able to effectively implement our strategy, or adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve, in a timely manner to exploit potential market opportunities or meet competitive challenges. if we are unable to successfully establish new offerings in light of the competitive environment, our results of operations could suffer. if we do not replace our intel licensing revenues, our financial results may be adversely affected. in january 2011, we entered into a patent cross licensing agreement under which intel agreed to pay us an aggregate of $1.50 billion over six years. the final $200 million payment under this agreement was received in january 2016. we will be recognizing revenue under this agreement through the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. if we do not enter into new licensing agreements or if the intel agreement is not offset by other growth in income our financial results may be adversely affected. 12 table of contents if our products fail to achieve expected manufacturing yields, our financial results could be adversely impacted and our reputation with our customers and partners may be harmed. manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the foundry. low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. we do not know whether a yield problem will exist until our design is actually manufactured by the foundry. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the manufacturing process and require us and the foundry to cooperate to resolve the problem. because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry capacity, any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in higher manufacturing costs and require us to allocate our available product supply among our customers and partners. lower than expected yields could harm customer or partner relationships, our reputation and our financial results. if our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged and we could lose market share. our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive industry. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to the products we sell directly to customers, the end product in which our device has been integrated by oems, odms, aibs and tier 1 automotive suppliers, and to the user of such end product. any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, cause us to lose market share, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue. in addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins and harm our relationships with customers and partners and consumers' perceptions of our brand. also, we may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or consumers, including costs to repair or replace products in the field. a product recall, particularly an automotive recall, or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, result in the shifting of business to our competitors and result in litigation against us such as product liability suits. if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our financial results. system security and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce our expected revenue and increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation. security breaches, computer malware and cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. these attacks have occurred on our systems in the past and may occur in the future. experienced computer programmers, hackers and employees may be able to penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information, or that of our employees or third parties. these attacks may create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. these hackers may also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities in our products, including consumer and automotive products, where we utilize over-the-air updates to improve functionality over time. for portions of our it infrastructure, including business management and communication software products, we rely on products and services provided by third parties. these providers may also experience breaches and attacks to their products which may impact our systems. data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, such as actions by an employee with access to our systems. actual or perceived breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our partners, our customers or third parties could expose the parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability, damage to our brand and reputation or other harm to our business. our efforts to prevent and overcome these challenges could increase our expenses and may not be successful. we may experience interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other critical functions. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers as a result of these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. 13 table of contents we depend on third parties and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test and/or package our products, which reduces our control over product quantity and quality, development, enhancement and product delivery schedule and could harm our business . we do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our gpus and tegra processors and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited and samsung electronics co. ltd., to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. similarly, we do not assemble, test or package our products, but instead rely on independent subcontractors, such as advanced semiconductor engineering, inc., byd auto co., ltd., hon hai precision industry co., ltd., jsi logistics, ltd., king yuan electronics co. and siliconware precision industries co. ltd. we do not have long-term commitment contracts with these foundries or subcontractors. as a result, we face several significant risks which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results, including: a lack of guaranteed supply of wafers and other components and potential higher wafer and component prices due to supply constraints; a failure by our foundries to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products; a failure to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies, needed to manufacture our products profitably or on a timely basis; loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or subcontractor and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier; a lack of direct control over delivery schedules or product quantity and quality; and delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or higher expenses in the event our subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors' orders over our orders or otherwise. we also rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements, and to bring such new products and enhancements to market in a timely manner. in the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products and enhancements as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. if we miss design cycles or lose design wins due to the unavailability of such software development tools, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline. if we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed. for our products that we do not sell directly to consumers, achieving design wins is an important success factor. our oem, odm, and aib and motherboard manufacturers' customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles or in connection with trade shows. if oems, odms, and aib and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their systems until at least the next design configuration. in order to achieve design wins, we must: anticipate the features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; and price our products competitively. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. further, if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. 14 table of contents business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. the occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, a majority of our principal it datacenters are located in california, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in this geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including taiwan, china and korea. our operations could be harmed if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. in the event of a major earthquake or other disaster or catastrophic event, our revenue could decline and our business may be harmed. we receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers and our revenue could decline if we lose any of these customers. we receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. revenue from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total revenue, was 11% of our total revenue from one customer in both fiscal year 2016 and 2015 and 21% of our total revenue from two customers in fiscal year 2014. our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our gpus and tegra processors. in the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, to purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or to alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; our customers may develop their own solutions; our customers may purchase products from our competitors; or our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. the loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in purchases by them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations, and any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could harm our operating results and financial condition. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of certain of our customers to make required payments and obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to these customers. in the future, we may have to record additional provisions or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions, which could negatively impact our financial results, and we may not be able to acquire credit insurance on the credit we extend to these customers or in amounts that we deem sufficient. our gross margin depends on a number of factors and changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our gross margin. our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, including the mix of our products sold, average selling prices, introduction of new products and services, process node transitions, product transitions, sales discounts, pricing actions by our competitors, the cost of product components and the yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our products. we are focused on improving our gross margin and if we are not able to control or estimate the impact of the above factors or other factors we do not foresee, our gross margins may be negatively impacted. in addition, gross margins for our tegra processors are lower than our overall corporate gross margins. if tegra processors comprise a higher percentage of our future revenue, or if we continue to enter into new business areas with comparatively lower margins, our overall gross margins may decline. 15 table of contents if we fail to estimate customer demand properly, our financial results could be harmed. we manufacture our gpus and tegra processors based on estimates of customer demand. in order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur, or may build inventory anticipating demand for a product that does not materialize. in estimating demand, we make multiple assumptions, any of which may prove to be incorrect. situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include: changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in our target markets and/or overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market; a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology or customer requirements; our introduction of new products resulting in lower demand for older products; less demand than expected for newly-introduced products; or increased competition, including competitive pricing actions. in addition, the cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. we could be required to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or market or write-off excess inventory, and we could experience a reduction in average selling prices if we incorrectly forecast product demand, any of which could harm our financial results. conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our foundry partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill customers' orders on a timely basis. even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely manner. if we fail to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, our customer relationships could be damaged, we could lose revenue and market share and our reputation could be damaged. we are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations which may harm our business. we conduct our business worldwide and we have offices in various countries outside of the united states. our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the united states and other americas. we also generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales to customers outside the united states and other americas. revenue from sales to customers outside of the united states and other americas accounted for 79% of total revenue for fiscal year 2016 and 75% of total revenue for both fiscal year 2015 and 2014. the global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anticorruption laws and regulations; exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and foreign exchange rate fluctuations; and increased costs due to imposition of climate change regulations, such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits. if sales to any of our customers outside of the united states and other americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. 16 table of contents we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. we have in the past acquired and invested in, and intend to continue to acquire and invest in, other businesses that offer products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products and business. any of the following risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results: difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business; diversion of capital and other resources, including management's attention; assumption of liabilities; incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of acquired assets; potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development, or legal and financial contingencies, among other things; and impairment of relationships with, or loss of our or our target's, employees, vendors and customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. risks related to regulatory, legal, our common stock and other matters actions to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we are unsuccessful in doing so or if we are prohibited from making or selling our products. we have in the past, currently are, and may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us, our employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify for certain claims of infringement. an unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. we may commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to protect our intellectual property rights. such proceedings may increase our operating expenses, which could negatively impact our operating results. further, we could be subject to countersuits as a result of our initiation of litigation. if infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third party's patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third party's patent or other intellectual property rights. however, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. if we or one of our indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. we may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements, and the laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing and new innovations and technologies, but cannot be certain whether our applications for such protections will be approved, and, if approved, whether we will be able to enforce such protections. 17 table of contents our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline. our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future continue to fluctuate due to numerous factors. for example, our operating expenses represent a significant portion of total revenue and are largely independent of revenue in any particular period. in particular, our research and development expenses reflect multi-year commitments to the development of new products and enhancements that will not result in revenue, if any, until future periods. therefore, investors should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. factors that could affect our results of operations in the future include: demand and market acceptance for our products and services and/or our customers' products; the successful development and volume production of our next-generation products; our inability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to the multi-year development cycle for some of our products and services; new product and service announcements or product and service introductions by our competitors; our introduction of new products in accordance with oems' design requirements and design cycles; changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our customers' products; the level of growth or decline of the pc industry in general; seasonal fluctuations associated with the pc and consumer products market; contraction in automotive and consumer end-market demand due to adverse regional or worldwide economic conditions; slower than expected growth of demand for new technologies; fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields; our ability to reduce the manufacturing costs of our products; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues; rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders; the loss of a significant customer; substantial disruption in the operations of our foundries or other third-party subcontractors, as a result of a natural disaster, equipment failure, terrorism or other causes; supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our customers' products, including memory devices; costs associated with the repair and replacement of defective products; unexpected inventory write-downs or write-offs; legal and other costs related to defending intellectual property and other types of lawsuits; availability of software and technology licenses at commercially reasonable terms for the continued sale or development of new products; customer bad debt write-offs; changes in our effective tax rate as a result of changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, applicable tax laws or interpretations of tax laws; any unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities; unexpected costs related to our ownership of real property; costs to comply with new government regulations and regulatory enforcement actions; costs to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards; and general macroeconomic events and factors affecting the overall semiconductor industry and our target markets. any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future financial results. any such failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors or security analysts could cause our stock price to decline or experience substantial price volatility and, as a result, investors may suffer losses. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. we have been in the past, and may be in the future, the target of securities litigation. such lawsuits generally result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. 18 table of contents privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and services. our products and services may provide us with access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. worldwide regulatory authorities are considering various legislative proposals concerning data protection. in addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, we may be ordered to change our data practices and/or be fined. complying with these changing laws could cause us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with development and construction of our headquarters building under an operating lease financing arrangement. in fiscal year 2016, we began to construct a new headquarters building in santa clara, california, which is currently targeted for completion in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018. we may encounter unanticipated occurrences or conditions during construction that may increase the expense of the project. we may also encounter unanticipated delays in the construction of the new building and final city approval for occupancy may be delayed. we are financing this construction under an operating lease arrangement described below. delays and cost overruns during construction could result in a default under the operating lease financing arrangement which could result in liabilities and expenses and could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, any such difficulties could result in our default under the operative agreements entered into with a syndicate of banks that are participants to the operating lease financing arrangement to finance development and construction of our headquarters. we have pledged our assets that relate to the new headquarters building in order to secure our obligations under the operating lease financing arrangement. we will need to maintain compliance with the requirements governing such agreements, including compliance with financial and other covenants, certain of which may be subject to events outside of our control. if we fail to comply with the covenants, we may be unable to obtain or utilize all or a portion of the financing contemplated by the operating lease financing arrangement. further, noncompliance with such covenants or other event of default could lead to a termination of our lease of the property, and the lenders could have the right to, among other things, foreclose on the collateral for our obligations under the operating lease financing arrangement. a loss of financing for the new headquarters building or foreclosure on the collateral could adversely affect our liquidity and business. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations . in december 2013, we issued $1.5 billion of 1.00% convertible senior notes due 2018, or 1.00% notes. our substantial indebtedness may: limit our ability to use our cash flow or borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes; make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. additionally, our obligation to make payments related to the 1.00% notes when converted or due could impact our cash balance and limit our ability to use our cash for our capital return program and our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes. the exercise of warrants associated with our 1.00% notes would dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. the warrants issued concurrently with our 1.00% notes will be deemed to be automatically exercised on certain dates between march 2019 and june 2019, unless the warrant holder notifies us otherwise. any issuance by us of shares upon exercise of the warrants will dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. any sales in the public market by the warrant holder of our common stock upon exercise of the warrants could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. 19 table of contents delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft corporation could delay or prevent a change in control. our status as a delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the delaware general corporation law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested shareholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. in addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of our board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior shareholder approval; the prohibition of shareholder action by written consent; advance notice requirements for director nominations and shareholder proposals; the ability of our board of directors to increase or decrease the number of directors without shareholder approval; a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; the inability of our shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and the ability of our board of directors to make, amend or repeal our bylaws. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investment and interest rate risk as of january 31, 2016 and january 25, 2015 , we had $5.04 billion and $4.62 billion , respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. as of january 31, 2016 , we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. as of january 31, 2016 , we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair values for these investments of $28 million . investments in both fixed and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in our consolidated statements of income due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in market values are determined to be other-than-temporary. other income and expense could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; and cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. volatility in the financial markets and economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. as of january 31, 2016 , our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented 47% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for 23% of our total investment portfolio. substantially all of our investments are with a/a3 or better rated securities. if the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2% - 5%, the fair values of these investments could decline by approximately $66 million - $164 million . on december 2, 2013, we issued $1.50 billion of 1.00 % convertible senior notes due 2018, or the notes. please refer to note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. we carry the notes at face value less unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. since the notes bear interest at a fixed rate, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. however, the fair value of the notes changes primarily when the market price of our stock fluctuates. during fiscal year 2016, we began to construct a new headquarters building in santa clara, california, which is currently targeted for completion in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018. we are financing this construction under an off-balance sheet, build-to-suit operating lease financing arrangement. following construction, we will pay rent in the form of interest that is based on a variable interest rate and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. in order to mitigate the interest rate risk on the operating lease financing arrangement, in august 2015, we entered into an interest rate swap for a portion of the operating lease financing arrangement, which entitles us to pay amounts based on a fixed interest rate in exchange for receipt of amounts based on variable interest rates. please refer to notes 9 and 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. if the syndicate of banks that are participants to the operating lease financing arrangement were to fail to fund loans for any reason, we would remain liable for payments due under the swap unless we were to settle the swap. if we were to settle the swap at a time when interest rates have fallen (relative to the swap's inception), the price to settle the swap could be significant. 43 table of contents exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other income, net in our consolidated financial statements and to date have not been significant. the impact of foreign currency transaction gain (loss) included in determining net income was not significant for both fiscal year 2016 and 2015, and was a gain of $5 million for fiscal year 2014. sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. additionally, we have international operations and incur expenditures in currencies other than u.s. dollars. our operating expenses benefit from a stronger dollar and are adversely affected by a weaker dollar. we may enter into certain transactions such as forward contracts which are designed to reduce the future potential impact resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. there were no forward exchange contracts outstanding as of january 31, 2016 .risk factors 14 risk factors - risks related to our business, industry and partners - we are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations which may harm our business. executive officers of the registrant the following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and positions as of february 24, 2017 : name age position jen-hsun huang 54 president, chief executive officer and director colette m. kress 49 executive vice president and chief financial officer ajay k. puri 62 executive vice president, worldwide field operations debora shoquist 62 executive vice president, operations timothy s. teter 50 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary jen-hsun huang co-founded nvidia in 1993 and has served as its president, chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors since its inception. from 1985 to 1993, mr. huang was employed at lsi logic corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions including as director of coreware, the business unit responsible for lsi's system-on-chip . from 1983 to 1985, mr. huang was a microprocessor designer for advanced micro devices, inc., a semiconductor company. mr. huang holds a b.s.e.e. degree from oregon state university and an m.s.e.e. degree from stanford university. 12 table of contents colette m. kress joined nvidia in 2013 as executive vice president and chief financial officer. prior to nvidia, ms. kress most recently served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of the business technology and operations finance organization at cisco systems, inc., a networking equipment company, since 2010. at cisco, ms. kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for all business segments, engineering and operations. from 1997 to 2010 ms. kress held a variety of positions at microsoft corporation, a software company, including, beginning in 2006, chief financial officer of the server and tools division, where ms. kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for the division. prior to joining microsoft, ms. kress spent eight years at texas instruments incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a variety of finance positions. ms. kress holds a b.s. degree in finance from university of arizona and an m.b.a. degree from southern methodist university. ajay k. puri joined nvidia in 2005 as senior vice president, worldwide sales and became executive vice president, worldwide field operations in 2009. prior to nvidia, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over a 22-year career at sun microsystems, inc., a computing systems company. mr. puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development positions at hewlett-packard company, an information technology company, booz allen hamilton inc., a management and technology consulting company, and texas instruments incorporated. mr. puri holds a b.s.e.e. degree from the university of minnesota, an m.s.e.e. degree from the california institute of technology and an m.b.a. degree from harvard business school. debora shoquist joined nvidia in 2007 as senior vice president of operations and in 2009 became executive vice president of operations. her role has since expanded with responsibility added for facilities in 2013, and for information technology in 2015. prior to nvidia, ms. shoquist served from 2004 to 2007 as executive vice president of operations at jds uniphase corp., a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications industry. she served from 2002 to 2004 as senior vice president and general manager of the electro-optics business at coherent, inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. previously, she worked at quantum corp., a data protection company, as president of the personal computer hard disk drive division, and at hewlett-packard corp. ms. shoquist holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering from kansas state university and a b.s. degree in biology from santa clara university. timothy s. teter joined nvidia in january 2017 as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary. prior to nvidia, mr. teter spent more than two decades at the law firm of cooley llp. he was most recently a partner at cooley, where he focused on litigating patent and technology related matters. prior to attending law school, he worked as an engineer at lockheed missiles and space company. mr. teter holds a b.s. degree in mechanical engineering from the university of california at davis and a j.d. degree from stanford law school. available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on or through our web site, http://www.nvidia.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission, or the sec. our web site and the information on it or connected to it are not a part of this annual report on form 10-k. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors in evaluating nvidia and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also harm our business. risks related to our business, industry and partners if we fail to meet the evolving needs of our markets, identify new products, services or technologies, or successfully compete in our target markets, our revenue and financial results will be adversely impacted. nvidia-branded solutions and services are visual computing and accelerated computing platforms that address four large markets: gaming, professional visualization, datacenter, and automotive. our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to meet the evolving needs of these markets and to enhance our existing products, services and technologies. in addition, our success depends on our ability to identify emerging industry trends and to develop new products, services and technologies. our existing markets and products and new markets and products may require a considerable investment of technical, financial, compliance, sales and marketing resources. we are currently devoting significant resources to the development of technologies and business offerings in markets where our operating history is less extensive, such as the automotive market. we cannot assure you that our strategic direction will result in innovative products and technologies that provide value to our customers and partners. if we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our target markets and emerging technology trends, or adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve, in a timely manner to exploit potential market opportunities our business will be harmed. in addition, if demand for products and services from these growth markets is below our expectations, if we fail to achieve consumer or market acceptance of them or if we are not able to develop these products and services in a cost effective or efficient manner, we may not realize benefits from our strategy. our target markets remain extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product and/or service offerings, industry standards continue to evolve and new competitors enter these markets. if we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets, including in significant international markets such as china, demand for our products, services and technologies could decrease which would cause our revenue to decline and our financial results to suffer. our competitors' products, services and technologies may be less costly, or may offer superior functionality or different features, than ours. in addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater financial, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. these competitors may be able to more effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets and end user customer trends, quickly transition their semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries and obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials, which could harm our business. if we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets or introduce new offerings in light of the competitive environment, our results of operations could suffer. if our products fail to achieve expected manufacturing yields, our financial results could be adversely impacted. manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the foundry. low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. we do not know whether a yield problem will exist until our design is actually manufactured by the foundry. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the manufacturing process and require us and the foundry to cooperate to resolve the problem. because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry capacity, any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in higher manufacturing costs and require us to allocate our available product supply among our customers and partners. lower than expected yields could harm customer or partner relationships and our financial results. 14 table of contents system security and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce our expected revenue and increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation. security breaches, computer malware and cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. these attacks have occurred on our systems in the past and are expected to occur in the future. experienced computer programmers, hackers and employees may be able to penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information, or that of our employees or third parties. these attacks may create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. these hackers may also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities in our products, including consumer and automotive products, where we utilize over-the-air updates to improve functionality over time. for portions of our it infrastructure, including business management and communication software products, we rely on products and services provided by third parties. these providers may also experience breaches and attacks to their products which may impact our systems. data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, such as actions by an employee with access to our systems. actual or perceived breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our partners, our customers or third parties could expose the parties affected to a risk of loss, or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability, damage to our brand and reputation or other harm to our business. our efforts to prevent and overcome these challenges could increase our expenses and may not be successful. we may experience interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other critical functions. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers as a result of these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. if our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged and we could lose market share. our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive industry. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to the products we sell directly to customers, the end product in which our device has been integrated by oems, odms, aibs and tier 1 automotive suppliers, and to the user of such end product. any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, cause us to lose market share, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue. in addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins and harm our relationships with customers and partners and consumers' perceptions of our brand. also, we may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or consumers, including costs to repair or replace products in the field. a product recall, particularly an automotive recall, or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, result in the shifting of business to our competitors and result in litigation against us such as product liability suits. if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our financial results. if we do not replace our intel licensing revenues, our financial results may be adversely affected. in january 2011, we entered into a patent cross licensing agreement under which intel agreed to pay us an aggregate of $1.50 billion over six years. the final $200 million payment under this agreement was received in january 2016. we will be recognizing revenue under this agreement through the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. if we do not enter into new licensing agreements or if the intel agreement is not offset by other growth in income our financial results may be adversely affected. 15 table of contents we depend on third parties and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test and/or package our products, which reduces our control over product quantity and quality, development, enhancement and product delivery schedule and could harm our business . we do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our gpus and tegra processors and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited and samsung electronics co. ltd., to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. similarly, we do not assemble, test or package our products, but instead rely on independent subcontractors, such as advanced semiconductor engineering, inc., byd auto co., ltd., hon hai precision industry co., ltd., jsi logistics, ltd., king yuan electronics co. and siliconware precision industries co. ltd. we do not have long-term commitment contracts with these foundries or subcontractors. as a result, we face several significant risks which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results, including: a lack of guaranteed supply of wafers and other components and potential higher wafer and component prices due to supply constraints; a failure by our foundries to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate manufacturing or test capacity for our products; a failure to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies such as 16nm finfet, and memory designs such as cowos, needed to manufacture our products profitably or on a timely basis; loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or subcontractor and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier; a lack of direct control over delivery schedules or product quantity and quality; and delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or higher expenses in the event our subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors' orders over our orders or otherwise. we also rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements, and to bring such new products and enhancements to market in a timely manner. in the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products and enhancements as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. if we miss design cycles or lose design wins due to the unavailability of such software development tools, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline. if we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed. for our products that we do not sell directly to consumers, achieving design wins is an important success factor. our oem, odm, and aib and motherboard manufacturers' customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles or in connection with trade shows. if oems, odms, and aib and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their systems until at least the next design configuration. in order to achieve design wins, we must: anticipate the features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of our customers; and price our products competitively. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. further, if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. 16 table of contents business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, outages at cloud service providers, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. the occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, a majority of our principal it datacenters are located in california, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in this geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including taiwan, china and korea. our operations could be harmed if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. in the event of a major earthquake or other disaster or catastrophic event, our revenue could decline and our business may be harmed. we receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers within our partner network and our revenue could be adversely affected if we lose any of these customers. we receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers within our partner network. with several of these partners, we are selling multiple target market platforms through their channels. as a result, revenue from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total revenue, was 12%, 11%, and 11% of our total revenue from one customer in fiscal years 2017, 2016 , and 2015 , respectively. our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales within our partner network, as well as the ability of these partners to sell products that incorporate our gpus and tegra processors. in the future, these partners may decide to purchase fewer products than they did in the past, not to incorporate our products into their ecosystem, or to alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; our partners may develop their own solutions; our customers may purchase products from our competitors; or our partners may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. the loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in purchases by them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations, and any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could harm our operating results and financial condition. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of certain of our customers to make required payments and obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to these customers. in the future, we may have to record additional provisions or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions, which could negatively impact our financial results, and we may not be able to acquire credit insurance on the credit we extend to these customers or in amounts that we deem sufficient. our gross margin depends on a number of factors and changes in any of these factors could adversely affect our gross margin. our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, including the mix of our products sold, average selling prices, introduction of new products and services, process node transitions, product transitions, sales discounts, pricing actions by our competitors, the cost of product components and the yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our products. we are focused on improving our gross margin and if we are not able to control or estimate the impact of the above factors or other factors we do not foresee, our gross margins may be negatively impacted. 17 table of contents if we fail to estimate customer demand properly, our financial results could be harmed. we manufacture our gpus and tegra processors based on estimates of customer demand. in order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur, or may build inventory anticipating demand for a product that does not materialize. in estimating demand, we make multiple assumptions, any of which may prove to be incorrect. situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include: changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in our target markets and/or overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market; a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology or customer requirements; our introduction of new products resulting in lower demand for older products; less demand than expected for newly-introduced products; or increased competition, including competitive pricing actions. in addition, the cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. we could be required to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or market or write-off excess inventory, and we could experience a reduction in average selling prices if we incorrectly forecast product demand, any of which could harm our financial results. conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our foundry partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill customers' orders on a timely basis. even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely manner. if we fail to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, our customer relationships could be damaged, we could lose revenue and market share and our reputation could be damaged. we are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations which may harm our business. we conduct our business worldwide and we have offices in various countries outside of the united states. our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the united states and other americas. we also generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales to customers outside the united states and other americas. revenue from sales to customers outside of the united states and other americas accounted for 80% , 79% and 75% of total revenue for fiscal years 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. the global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anticorruption laws and regulations; exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; financial risks such as longer payment cycles, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and foreign exchange rate fluctuations; and increased costs due to imposition of climate change regulations, such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits. if sales to any of our customers outside of the united states and other americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. 18 table of contents we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. we have in the past acquired and invested in, and may continue to acquire and invest in, other businesses that offer products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products and business. any of the following risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results: difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business; diversion of capital and other resources, including management's attention; assumption of liabilities; incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of acquired assets; potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues with product quality, architecture and development, or legal and financial contingencies, among other things; and impairment of relationships with, or loss of our or our target's, employees, vendors and customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. risks related to regulatory, legal, our common stock and other matters actions to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we are unsuccessful in doing so or if we are prohibited from making or selling our products. we have in the past, currently are, and may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us, our employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify for certain claims of infringement. an unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. we may commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to protect our intellectual property rights. such proceedings may increase our operating expenses, which could negatively impact our operating results. further, we could be subject to countersuits as a result of our initiation of litigation. if infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third party's patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third party's patent or other intellectual property rights. however, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. if we or one of our indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. we may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements, and the laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing and new innovations and technologies, but cannot be certain whether our applications for such protections will be approved, and, if approved, whether we will be able to enforce such protections. 19 table of contents our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline. our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future continue to fluctuate due to numerous factors. for example, our operating expenses represent a significant portion of total revenue and are largely independent of revenue in any particular period. in particular, our research and development expenses reflect multi-year programs for the development of new products and enhancements that will not result in revenue, if any, until future periods. therefore, investors should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. factors that could affect our results of operations in the future include: demand and market acceptance for our products and services and/or our customers' products; the successful development and volume production of our next-generation products; our inability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to the multi-year development cycle for some of our products and services; new product and service announcements or product and service introductions by our competitors; our introduction of new products in accordance with oems' design requirements and design cycles; changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our customers' products; the level of growth or decline of the pc industry in general; seasonal fluctuations associated with the pc and consumer products market; contraction in automotive and consumer end-market demand due to adverse regional or worldwide economic conditions; slower than expected growth of demand for new technologies; fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields; our ability to reduce the manufacturing costs of our products; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues; rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders; the loss of a significant customer; substantial disruption in the operations of our foundries or other third-party subcontractors, as a result of a natural disaster, equipment failure, terrorism or other causes; supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our customers' products, including memory devices; costs associated with the repair and replacement of defective products; unexpected inventory write-downs or write-offs; legal and other costs related to defending intellectual property and other types of lawsuits; availability of software and technology licenses at commercially reasonable terms for the continued sale or development of new products; customer bad debt write-offs; changes in our effective tax rate as a result of changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, applicable tax laws or interpretations of tax laws; any unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities; unexpected costs related to our ownership of real property; costs to comply with new government regulations and regulatory enforcement actions; costs to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting; changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards; and general macroeconomic events and factors affecting the overall semiconductor industry and our target markets. any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future financial results. any such failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors or security analysts could cause our stock price to decline or experience substantial price volatility and, as a result, investors may suffer losses. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. we have been in the past, and may be in the future, the target of securities litigation. such lawsuits generally result in the diversion of management's time and attention away from business operations, which could harm our business. in addition, the costs of defense and any damages resulting from litigation, a ruling against us, or a settlement of the litigation could adversely affect our cash flow and financial results. 20 table of contents privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our products and services. our products and services may provide us with access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. worldwide regulatory authorities are considering various legislative proposals concerning data protection. in addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, we may be ordered to change our data practices and/or be fined. complying with these changing laws could cause us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we are subject to risks associated with development and construction of our headquarters building under an operating lease financing arrangement. in fiscal year 2016, we began to construct a new headquarters building in santa clara, california, which is currently targeted for completion in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2018. we may encounter unanticipated occurrences or conditions during construction that may increase the expense of the project. we may also encounter unanticipated delays in the construction of the new building and final city approval for occupancy may be delayed. we are financing this construction under an operating lease arrangement described below. delays and cost overruns during construction could result in a default under the operating lease financing arrangement which could result in liabilities and expenses and could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, any such difficulties could result in our default under the operative agreements entered into with a syndicate of banks that are participants to the operating lease financing arrangement to finance development and construction of our headquarters. we have pledged our assets that relate to the new headquarters building in order to secure our obligations under the operating lease financing arrangement. we will need to maintain compliance with the requirements governing such agreements, including compliance with financial and other covenants, certain of which may be subject to events outside of our control. if we fail to comply with the covenants, we may be unable to obtain or utilize all or a portion of the financing contemplated by the operating lease financing arrangement. further, noncompliance with such covenants or other event of default could lead to a termination of our lease of the property, and the lenders could have the right to, among other things, foreclose on the collateral for our obligations under the operating lease financing arrangement. a loss of financing for the new headquarters building or foreclosure on the collateral could adversely affect our liquidity and business. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations. in september 2016, we issued $1.00 billion of 2.20% notes due september 16, 2021, or the notes due 2021, and $1.00 billion of 3.20% notes due september 16, 2026, or the notes due 2026 (collectively, the notes). in december 2013, we issued $1.50 billion of 1.00% convertible senior notes due december 1, 2018, or the convertible notes, of which $827 million in principal amount remained outstanding as of january 29, 2017. we have received additional conversion requests of $660 million in principal amount, $502 million of which have already settled, $103 million of which are expected to settle during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, and $55 million of which are expected to settle during the second quarter of fiscal year 2018. our indebtedness may limit our ability to use our cash flow or borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes. additionally, our obligation to make payments related to the notes or the convertible notes could impact our cash balance and limit our ability to use our cash for our capital return program and our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes. 21 table of contents the warrants associated with our convertible notes, or the warrants, dilute our net income per share and the settlement or eventual exercise of the warrants would dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. when the average trading price of our common stock for a fiscal quarter exceeds the adjusted strike price of the warrants, the number of diluted weighted average shares used in our net income per share calculation increases, which dilutes our net income per share. any issuance by us of shares upon exercise or any other settlement of the warrants may dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders. in december 2016, we entered into an agreement with a counterparty bank to terminate 63 million of the 75 million warrants outstanding. in consideration for the termination of these warrants, we delivered a total of 48 million shares of common stock to the counterparty bank, the amount of which was determined each day based on the daily volume-weighted average price of our common stock during an observation period beginning december 13, 2016 and ending january 31, 2017. as of january 29, 2017, 44 million of the 48 million shares of our common stock had been issued related to the terminated warrants. the remaining 4 million shares were issued in the beginning of fiscal year 2018. an aggregate of 12 million warrants remained outstanding, or the remaining warrants, as of january 29, 2017. the remaining warrants will be deemed to be automatically exercised on certain dates between march 2019 and june 2019, unless the warrant holder notifies us otherwise. delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft corporation could delay or prevent a change in control. our status as a delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the delaware general corporation law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested shareholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. in addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of our board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior shareholder approval; the prohibition of shareholder action by written consent; advance notice requirements for director nominations and shareholder proposals; the ability of our board of directors to increase or decrease the number of directors without shareholder approval; a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; the inability of our shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and the ability of our board of directors to make, amend or repeal our bylaws. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investment and interest rate risk as of january 29, 2017 and january 31, 2016 , we had $6.80 billion and $5.04 billion , respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. as of january 29, 2017 , we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. as of january 29, 2017 , we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair values for these investments of $33 million . investments in both fixed and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may be negatively impacted due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in our consolidated statements of income due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in market values are determined to be other-than-temporary. other income (expense), net, could also vary depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances; and foreign exchange fluctuations. volatility in the financial markets and economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our financial instruments could differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. as of january 29, 2017 , our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented 40% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for 27% of our total investment portfolio. substantially all of our investments are with a/a3 or better rated securities. if the fair value of our investments in these sectors was to decline by 2% - 5%, the fair values of these investments could decline by approximately $73 million - $184 million . in december 2013, we issued $1.50 billion of convertible notes. in september 2016, we issued $1.00 billion of the notes due 2021 and $1.00 billion of the notes due 2026. in october 2016, we also established a revolving credit facility under which we may borrow, repay and re-borrow amounts from time to time, up to $575 million. please refer to note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. we carry the notes at face value less unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. since the notes bear interest at a fixed rate, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. however, the fair value of the notes changes primarily when the market price of our stock fluctuates. 41 table of contents we are financing the construction of our new headquarters building under an off-balance sheet, build-to-suit operating lease financing arrangement. following construction, we will pay rent in the form of interest that is based on a variable interest rate and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. in order to mitigate the interest rate risk on the operating lease financing arrangement, in fiscal year 2016, we entered into an interest rate swap for a portion of the operating lease financing arrangement, which entitles us to pay amounts based on a fixed interest rate in exchange for receipt of amounts based on variable interest rates. please refer to notes 9 and 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. if the syndicate of banks that are participants to the operating lease financing arrangement were to fail to fund loans for any reason, we would remain liable for payments due under the swap unless we were to settle the swap. if we were to settle the swap at a time when interest rates have fallen (relative to the swap's inception), the price to settle the swap could be significant. foreign exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other income (expense), net in our consolidated statements of income and to date have not been significant. the impact of foreign currency transaction gain (loss) included in determining net income was not significant for fiscal years 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 . sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. additionally, we have international operations and incur expenditures in currencies other than u.s. dollars. our operating expenses benefit from a stronger dollar and are adversely affected by a weaker dollar. during fiscal year 2017, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses. we designate these contracts as cash flow hedges and assess the effectiveness of the hedge relationships on a spot to spot basis. gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), and then reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur. during fiscal year 2017, we also entered into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than our reporting currency. the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded as a component of other income (expense), net, and offsets the change in fair value of the foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which is also recorded in other income (expense), net. please see note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information.risk factors 12 risk factors - risks related to our business, industry and partners - we are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations, which may harm our business. executive officers of the registrant the following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and positions as of february 26, 2018 : name age position jen-hsun huang 55 president, chief executive officer and director colette m. kress 50 executive vice president and chief financial officer ajay k. puri 63 executive vice president, worldwide field operations debora shoquist 63 executive vice president, operations timothy s. teter 51 executive vice president, general counsel and secretary jen-hsun huang co-founded nvidia in 1993 and has served as our president, chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors since our inception. from 1985 to 1993, mr. huang was employed at lsi logic corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions including as director of coreware, the business unit responsible for lsi's soc. from 1983 to 1985, mr. huang was a microprocessor designer for advanced micro devices, inc., a semiconductor company. mr. huang holds a b.s.e.e. degree from oregon state university and an m.s.e.e. degree from stanford university. colette m. kress joined nvidia in 2013 as executive vice president and chief financial officer. prior to nvidia, ms. kress most recently served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of the business technology and operations finance organization at cisco systems, inc., a networking equipment company, since 2010. at cisco, ms. kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for all business segments, engineering and operations. from 1997 to 2010 ms. kress held a variety of positions at microsoft corporation, a software company, including, beginning in 2006, chief financial officer of the server and tools division, where ms. kress was responsible for financial strategy, planning, reporting and business development for the division. prior to joining microsoft, ms. kress spent eight years at texas instruments incorporated, a semiconductor company, where she held a variety of finance positions. ms. kress holds a b.s. degree in finance from university of arizona and an m.b.a. degree from southern methodist university. ajay k. puri joined nvidia in 2005 as senior vice president, worldwide sales and became executive vice president, worldwide field operations in 2009. prior to nvidia, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over a 22-year career at sun microsystems, inc., a computing systems company. mr. puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development positions at hewlett-packard company, an information technology company, booz allen hamilton inc., a management and technology consulting company, and texas instruments incorporated. mr. puri holds a b.s.e.e. degree from the university of minnesota, an m.s.e.e. degree from the california institute of technology and an m.b.a. degree from harvard business school. debora shoquist joined nvidia in 2007 as senior vice president of operations and in 2009 became executive vice president of operations. her role has since expanded with responsibility added for facilities in 2013, and for information technology in 2015. prior to nvidia, ms. shoquist served from 2004 to 2007 as executive vice president of operations at jds uniphase corp., a provider of communications test and measurement solutions and optical products for the telecommunications industry. she served from 2002 to 2004 as senior vice president and general manager of the electro-optics business at coherent, inc., a manufacturer of commercial and scientific laser equipment. previously, she worked at quantum corp., a data protection company, as president of the personal computer hard disk drive division, and at hewlett-packard corp. ms. shoquist holds a b.s. degree in electrical engineering from kansas state university and a b.s. degree in biology from santa clara university. timothy s. teter joined nvidia in 2017 as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary and became executive vice president, general counsel and secretary in february 2018. prior to nvidia, mr. teter spent more than two decades at the law firm of cooley llp. he was most recently a partner at cooley, where he focused on litigating patent and technology related matters. prior to attending law school, he worked as an engineer at lockheed missiles and space company. mr. teter holds a b.s. degree in mechanical engineering from the university of california at davis and a j.d. degree from stanford law school. 11 table of contents available information our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on or through our web site, http://www.nvidia.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission, or the sec. our web site and the information on it or connected to it are not a part of this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors in evaluating nvidia and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation, which could cause our stock price to decline, and you may lose all or a part of your investment. additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. risks related to our business, industry and partners if we fail to meet the evolving needs of our markets, or identify new products, services or technologies, our revenue and financial results may be adversely impacted. we have created gpu-based visual and accelerated computing platforms that address four large markets: gaming, professional visualization, datacenter, and automotive. these markets often experience rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, new product introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards. our success depends on our ability to identify these emerging industry changes and to develop new (or enhance our existing) products, services and technologies that meet the evolving needs of these markets. such activities may require considerable technical, financial, compliance, sales and marketing investments. we currently devote significant resources to the development of technologies and business offerings in markets where we have a limited operating history, such as the automotive and datacenter markets, which presents additional risks to our business. we must also continue to develop the infrastructure needed to appropriately scale our business in these areas, including customer service and customer support. we also must meet customer safety and compliance standards, which are subject to change. additionally, we continue to make considerable investments in research and development, which may not produce significant revenue for several years, if at all. if our investments are unsuccessful and we fail to develop new products, services and technologies, or if we focus on technologies that do not become widely adopted, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that our strategic direction will result in innovative products and technologies that provide value to our customers, partners and ultimately, our shareholders. if we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our target markets and emerging technology trends, or if we do not appropriately adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve, in a timely manner to exploit potential market opportunities, our business will be harmed. competition in our current and target markets could prevent us from growing our revenue. our target markets remain extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product and/or service offerings, industry standards continue to evolve, customer needs change and new competitors enter these markets. our competitors' products, services and technologies may be less costly, or may offer superior functionality or better features, than ours, which may result, among other things, in lower than expected selling prices for our products. in addition, some of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, more comprehensive intellectual property, or ip, portfolios and patent protections, and greater financial, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. these competitors may be able to more effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets and end user customer trends, quickly transition their products, including semiconductor products, to increasingly smaller line width geometries, and obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials, which could harm our business. if we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets, respond to changes in our target markets or introduce new offerings to meet the needs of this competitive environment, including in significant international markets such as china, demand for our products, services and technologies could decrease, which would cause our revenue to decline and cause our results of operations to suffer. in addition, the competitive landscape in our target markets has changed and may continue to evolve due to a trend toward consolidation, which could lead to fewer customers, partners, or suppliers, any of which could negatively affect our financial results. 12 table of contents system security and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce our expected revenue and increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation. security breaches, computer malware and cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. these threats are constantly evolving, making it increasingly difficult to successfully defend against them or implement adequate preventative measures. these attacks have occurred on our systems in the past and are expected to occur in the future. experienced computer programmers, hackers and employees may penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information, or that of our employees or third parties. these attacks may create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. these hackers may also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities in our products, including consumer and automotive products, where we utilize over-the-air updates to improve functionality over time. for portions of our it infrastructure, including business management and communication software products, we rely on products and services provided by third parties. these providers may also experience breaches and attacks to their products which may impact our systems. data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, such as actions by an employee with access to our systems. to defend against security threats, both to our internal systems and those of our customers, we must continuously engineer more secure products and enhance security and reliability features, which may result in increased expenses. actual or perceived breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our partners, our customers or third parties could expose us and the parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability, paying damages, regulatory inquiries or actions, damage to our brand and reputation or other harm to our business. our efforts to prevent and overcome these challenges could increase our expenses and may not be successful. we may experience interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other critical functions. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers as a result of these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. if our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged, and we could lose market share. our products are complex and may contain defects or security vulnerabilities, or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. these risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, markets, technologies and applications, including into the automotive market, or as new versions are released. some errors in our products or services may only be discovered after a product or service has been shipped or used by customers or the end users of such product. undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products or services could expose our customers or end users to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that could attack our products or services. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to the products we sell directly to customers, the end product in which our device has been integrated by oems, odms, aibs and tier 1 automotive suppliers, and to the user of such end product. any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, write off the value of related inventory, cause us to lose market share, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue. in addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins, harm our relationships with customers and partners and harm consumers' perceptions of our brand. also, we may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or consumers, including costs to repair or replace products in the field. a product recall, including automotive recalls or a recall due to a bug in our products, or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract new customers, result in the shifting of business to our competitors and result in litigation against us, such as product liability suits. if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our financial results. we depend on third parties and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test and/or package our products, which reduces our control over product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, development, enhancement and product delivery schedule and could harm our business. we do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our gpus and tegra processors and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited and samsung electronics co. ltd., to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. similarly, we do not directly assemble, test or package our products, but instead rely on 13 table of contents independent subcontractors. we do not have long-term commitment contracts with these foundries or subcontractors. as a result, we face several significant risks which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results, including: a lack of guaranteed supply of wafers and other components and potential higher wafer and component prices due to supply constraints; a failure by our foundries to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate or any manufacturing or test capacity for our products; a failure to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies such as 16nm finfet, and memory designs such as cowos, needed to manufacture our products profitably or on a timely basis; loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or subcontractor and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier; a lack of direct control over delivery schedules or product quantity and quality; and delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or higher expenses in the event our subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors' orders over our orders or otherwise. in addition, low manufacturing yields could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand, increase manufacturing costs, harm customer or partner relationships, and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results. manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the foundry. low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. we do not know whether a yield problem will exist until our design is actually manufactured by the foundry. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the manufacturing process and require us and the foundry to cooperate to resolve the problem. we also rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements, and to bring such new products and enhancements to market in a timely manner. in the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products and enhancements as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. if we miss design cycles or lose design wins due to the unavailability of such software development tools, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline. if we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed. for our products that we do not sell directly to consumers, achieving design wins is an important success factor. achieving design wins may involve a lengthy process in pursuit of a customer opportunity and depend on our ability to anticipate features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand. failure to obtain a particular design win may prevent us from obtaining design wins in subsequent generations of a particular product. this could result in lost revenue and could weaken our position in future competitive bid selection processes. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. further, if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, including safety standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. winning a product design does not guarantee sales to a customer or that we will realize as much revenue as anticipated, if any. business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, outages at cloud service providers, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. the occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, a majority of our current datacenter capacity is located in california, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical areas. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including taiwan, china and korea. geopolitical change or changes in government regulations and policies in the u.s. or abroad also may result in changing regulatory requirements, 14 table of contents trade policies, and economic disruptions that could impact our operating strategies, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. catastrophic events can also have an impact on third-party vendors who provide us critical infrastructure services for it and research and development systems and personnel. our operations could be harmed if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. in the event a major earthquake or other disaster or catastrophic event affects us or the third-party systems on which we rely, our business could be harmed as a result of declines in revenue, increases in expenses, substantial expenditures and time spent to fully resume operations. if we fail to estimate customer demand properly, our financial results could be harmed. we manufacture our gpus and tegra processors based on estimates of customer demand and requirements. in order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur, or may build inventory anticipating demand for a product that does not materialize. in estimating demand, we make multiple assumptions, any of which may prove to be incorrect. situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include: changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in our target markets and/or overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market; a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology or customer requirements; our introduction of new products resulting in lower demand for older products; less demand than expected for newly-introduced products; or increased competition, including competitive pricing actions. the cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. we could be required to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or market or write-off excess inventory, and we could experience a reduction in average selling prices if we incorrectly forecast product demand, any of which could harm our financial results. conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our foundry partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill customers' orders on a timely basis. we may also face supply constraints caused by natural disasters or other events. in such cases, even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely manner. if we fail to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, our customer relationships could be damaged, we could lose revenue and market share and our reputation could be damaged. we are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations, which may harm our business. we conduct our business worldwide and we have offices in various countries outside of the united states. our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the united states and other americas. we also generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales outside the united states and other americas. revenue from sales outside of the united states and other americas accounted for 79% , 80%, and 79% of total revenue for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. additionally, as of january 28, 2018, approximately 47% of our employees were located outside of the united states. the global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: international economic and political conditions, such as political tensions between countries in which we do business; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including changes in tax laws; differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anticorruption laws and regulations; exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, including deemed export restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; 15 table of contents disruptions of capital and trading markets and currency fluctuations; and increased costs due to imposition of climate change regulations, such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits. if our sales outside of the united states and other americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. to be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. in particular, hiring qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff and research and development personnel is critical to our business. additionally, changes in immigration and work permit laws and regulations or the administration or interpretation of such laws or regulations could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. additionally, competition for personnel results in increased costs in the form of cash and stock-based compensation. the interpretation and application of employment related laws to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. we have in the past acquired and invested in, and may continue to acquire and invest in, other businesses that offer products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products, strategic objectives and business. the risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results. given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives. additional risks related to acquisitions or strategic investments include, but are not limited to: difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business; diversion of capital and other resources, including management's attention; assumption of liabilities and incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of acquired assets; difficulty in realizing a satisfactory return, if at all; difficulty in obtaining regulatory, other approvals or financing; failure and costs associated with the failure to consummate a proposed acquisition or other strategic investment; legal proceedings initiated as a result of an acquisition or investment; uncertainties and time needed to realize the benefits of an acquisition or strategic investment, if at all; the need to later divest acquired assets if an acquisition does not meet our expectations; potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues with the acquired assets or company; and impairment of relationships with, or loss of our or our target's, employees, vendors and customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. risks related to regulatory, legal, our common stock and other matters actions to adequately protect our ip rights could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we are unsuccessful in doing so or if we are prohibited from making or selling our products. we have in the past, currently are, and may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us, our employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify for certain claims of infringement. an unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. claims that our products or processes infringe the ip rights of others, 16 table of contents regardless of their merit, could cause us to incur significant costs to respond to, defend, and resolve such claims, and they may also divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel. we may commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to protect our intellectual property rights. such proceedings may increase our operating expenses, which could negatively impact our operating results. further, we could be subject to countersuits as a result of our initiation of litigation. if infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third party's patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third party's patent or other intellectual property rights. however, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. if we or one of our indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. we may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. our success depends in part on protecting our intellectual property. to accomplish this, we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements, and the laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, and even with significant expenditures we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights that are valuable to our business. the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. in addition, the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in research and development, product development, and marketing could be reduced. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing and new innovations and technologies, but cannot be certain whether our applications for such protections will be approved, and, if approved, whether we will be able to enforce such protections. our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline. our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future continue to fluctuate due to numerous factors. therefore, investors should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. factors, other than those described elsewhere in these risk factors, that could affect our results of operations in the future include, but are not limited to: our ability to achieve volume production of our next-generation products; our inability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to the multi-year development cycle for some of our products and services; fluctuations in the demand for our products related to cryptocurrencies; changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our partners' products; our ability to cover the manufacturing and design costs of our products through competitive pricing; our ability to comply and continue to comply with our customers' contractual obligations; product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues; our ability to secure appropriate safety certifications and meet industry safety standards; supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our products inventory write-downs; our ability to continue generating revenue from our partner network, including by generating sales within our partner network and ensuring our products are incorporated into our partners product ecosystems, and our partner network's ability to sell products that incorporate our gpus and tegra processors; the inability of certain of our customers to make required payments to us, and our ability to obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to these customers; customer bad debt write-offs; any unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities; unexpected costs related to our ownership of real property; 17 table of contents changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards; and general macroeconomic or industry events and factors affecting the overall market and our target markets. any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future financial results. any such failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors or security analysts could cause our stock price to decline or experience substantial price volatility. privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter current and potential users from using our products and services, result in liability, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. our products and services may provide us with access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business or by one of our partners could result in significantly increased security costs, damage to our reputation, regulatory proceedings, disruption of our business activities or increased costs related to defending legal claims. worldwide regulatory authorities are considering and have approved various legislative proposals concerning data protection, which continue to evolve and apply to our business. for example, the european union adopted the general data protection regulation, or gdpr, which requires companies to meet new requirements beginning in may 2018 regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. failure to meet gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. in addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, we may be ordered to change our data practices and/or be fined. complying with these changing laws has caused, and could continue to cause, us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our operating results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. further, changes in united states federal, and state or international tax laws applicable to multinational corporations or other fundamental law changes may materially impact our tax expense and cash flows, as we experienced in fiscal year 2018 with the passage of the tax cuts and jobs act, or tcja. our future effective tax rate may be affected by such factors as changes in tax laws, changes in our business or statutory rates, changes in jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed, changes in available tax credits, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits, changes in united states generally accepted accounting principles, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and in deferred tax valuation allowances, changing interpretation of existing laws or regulations, the impact of accounting for stock-based compensation and the recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies within the income tax provision in the period in which they occur, the impact of accounting for business combinations, shifts in the amount of earnings in the united states compared with other regions in the world and overall levels of income before tax, changes in our international organization, as well as the expiration of statute of limitations and settlements of audits. any changes in our effective tax rate may reduce our net income. our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation, investigations and regulatory proceedings. we have in the past and may, from time to time, face legal, administrative and regulatory proceedings, claims, demands and investigations involving shareholder, consumer, competition and other issues relating to our business on a global basis. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities and we have been in the past, and may be in the future, the target of securities litigation. the laws and regulations our business is subject to are complex, and change frequently. we may be required to incur significant expense to comply with, or remedy violations of, these regulations. litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing 18 table of contents of patents. an unfavorable outcome or settlement may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. in addition, regardless of the outcome, litigation can be costly, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft corporation could delay or prevent a change in control. our status as a delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the delaware general corporation law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested shareholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. in addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of our board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior shareholder approval; the prohibition of shareholder action by written consent; advance notice requirements for director nominations and shareholder proposals; the ability of our board of directors to increase or decrease the number of directors without shareholder approval; a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; the inability of our shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and the ability of our board of directors to make, amend or repeal our bylaws. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk related to our floating and fixed-rate investment portfolio and outstanding debt. the investment portfolio is managed consistent with our overall liquidity strategy in support of both working capital needs and strategic growth of our businesses. as of january 28, 2018 , we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair values for these investments of $14 million . in fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the notes due 2021 and $1.00 billion of the notes due 2026. in fiscal year 2014, we issued $1.50 billion of convertible notes which had $15 million in principal amount outstanding as of january 28, 2018 . we carry the notes at face value less unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. as the notes bear interest at a fixed rate, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. however, the fair value of the convertible notes changes primarily when the market price of our stock fluctuates. refer to note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. foreign exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other income or expense and to date have not been significant. the impact of foreign currency transaction gain or loss included in determining net income was not significant for fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016. sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other 34 table of contents currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. additionally, we have international operations and incur expenditures in currencies other than u.s. dollars. our operating expenses benefit from a stronger dollar and are adversely affected by a weaker dollar. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses. we designate these contracts as cash flow hedges and assess the effectiveness of the hedge relationships on a spot to spot basis. gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, and then reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur. we also use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than u.s. dollar. these forward contracts were not designated for hedge accounting treatment. therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in other income or expense and offsets the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which is also recorded in other income or expense. refer to note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information.risk factors 12 risk factors in evaluating nvidia and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation, which could cause our stock price to decline, and you may lose all or a part of your investment. additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. risks related to our business, industry and partners if we fail to meet the evolving needs of our markets, or identify new products, services or technologies, our revenue and financial results may be adversely impacted. we have created gpu-based visual and accelerated computing platforms that address four large markets: gaming, professional visualization, datacenter, and automotive. these markets often experience rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, new product introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards. our success depends on our ability to identify these emerging industry changes and to develop new (or enhance our existing) products, services and technologies that meet the evolving needs of these markets. such activities may require considerable technical, financial, compliance, sales and marketing investments. we currently devote significant resources to the development of technologies and business offerings in markets where we have a limited operating history, such as the automotive and datacenter markets, which presents additional risks to our business. we must also continue to develop the infrastructure needed to appropriately scale our business in these areas, including customer service and customer support. we also must meet customer safety and compliance standards, which are subject to change. additionally, we continue to make considerable investments in research and development, which may not produce significant revenue for several years, if at all. if our investments are unsuccessful and we fail to develop new products, services and technologies, or if we focus on technologies that do not become widely adopted, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that our strategic direction will result in innovative products and technologies that provide value to our customers, partners and ultimately, our shareholders. if we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our target markets and emerging technology trends, or if we do not appropriately adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve, in a timely manner to exploit potential market opportunities, our business will be harmed. competition in our current and target markets could prevent us from growing our revenue. our target markets remain extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product and/or service offerings, industry standards continue to evolve, customer needs change and new competitors enter these markets. our competitors' products, services and technologies may be less costly, or may offer superior functionality or better features, than ours, which may result, among other things, in lower than expected selling prices for our products. in addition, some of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, more comprehensive intellectual property, or ip, portfolios and patent protections, and greater financial, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. these competitors may be able to more effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets and end user customer trends, quickly transition their products, including semiconductor products, to increasingly smaller line width geometries, and obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials, which could harm our business. if we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets, respond to changes in our target markets or introduce new offerings to meet the needs of this competitive environment, including in significant international markets such as china, demand for our products, services and technologies could decrease, which would cause our revenue to decline and cause our results of operations to suffer. in addition, the competitive landscape in our target markets has changed and may continue to evolve due to a trend toward consolidation, which could lead to fewer customers, partners, or suppliers, any of which could negatively affect our financial results. system security and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce our expected revenue and increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation. security breaches, computer malware and cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. these threats are constantly evolving, making it increasingly difficult to successfully defend against them or implement adequate preventative measures. these attacks have occurred on our systems in the past and are expected to occur in the future. experienced computer programmers, hackers and employees may penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information, or that of our employees or third parties. these attacks may 12 table of contents create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. these hackers may also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities in our products, including consumer and automotive products, where we utilize over-the-air updates to improve functionality over time. for portions of our it infrastructure, including business management and communication software products, we rely on products and services provided by third parties. these providers may also experience breaches and attacks to their products which may impact our systems. data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, such as actions by an employee with access to our systems. to defend against security threats, both to our internal systems and those of our customers, we must continuously engineer more secure products and enhance security and reliability features, which may result in increased expenses. actual or perceived breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our partners, our customers or third parties could expose us and the parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability, paying damages, regulatory inquiries or actions, damage to our brand and reputation or other harm to our business. our efforts to prevent and overcome these challenges could increase our expenses and may not be successful. we may experience interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other critical functions. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers as a result of these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. if our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged, and we could lose market share. our products are complex and may contain defects or security vulnerabilities, or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. these risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, markets, technologies and applications, including into the automotive market, or as new versions are released. some errors in our products or services may only be discovered after a product or service has been shipped or used by customers or the end users of such product. undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products or services could expose our customers or end users to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that could attack our products or services. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to the products we sell directly to customers, the end product in which our device has been integrated by oems, odms, aibs and tier 1 automotive suppliers, and to the user of such end product. any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, write off the value of related inventory, cause us to lose market share, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue. in addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins, harm our relationships with customers and partners and harm consumers' perceptions of our brand. also, we may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or consumers, including costs to repair or replace products in the field. a product recall, including automotive recalls or a recall due to a bug in our products, or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract new customers, result in the shifting of business to our competitors and result in litigation against us, such as product liability suits. if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our financial results. we depend on third parties and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test and/or package our products, which reduces our control over product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, development, enhancement and product delivery schedule and could harm our business. we do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our gpus and tegra processors and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited and samsung electronics co. ltd., to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. similarly, we do not directly assemble, test or package our products, but instead rely on independent subcontractors. we do not have long-term commitment contracts with these foundries or subcontractors. as a result, we face several significant risks which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results, including: a lack of guaranteed supply of wafers and other components and potential higher wafer and component prices due to supply constraints; a failure by our foundries to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate or any manufacturing or test capacity for our products; 13 table of contents a failure to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies such as advanced process node technologies and memory designs needed to manufacture our products profitably or on a timely basis; loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or subcontractor and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier; a lack of direct control over delivery schedules or product quantity and quality; and delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or higher expenses in the event our subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors' orders over our orders or otherwise. in addition, low manufacturing yields could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand, increase manufacturing costs, harm customer or partner relationships, and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results. manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the foundry. low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. we do not know whether a yield problem will exist until our design is actually manufactured by the foundry. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the manufacturing process and require us and the foundry to cooperate to resolve the problem. we also rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements, and to bring such new products and enhancements to market in a timely manner. in the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products and enhancements as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. if we miss design cycles or lose design wins due to the unavailability of such software development tools, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline. if we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed. for our products that we do not sell directly to consumers, achieving design wins is an important success factor. achieving design wins may involve a lengthy process in pursuit of a customer opportunity and depend on our ability to anticipate features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand. failure to obtain a particular design win may prevent us from obtaining design wins in subsequent generations of a particular product. this could result in lost revenue and could weaken our position in future competitive bid selection processes. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. further, if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, including safety standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. winning a product design does not guarantee sales to a customer or that we will realize as much revenue as anticipated, if any. business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, outages at cloud service providers, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. the occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations, finished goods inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, a large portion of our current datacenter capacity is located in california, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical areas. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including taiwan, china, and korea. geopolitical change or changes in government regulations and policies in the united states or abroad also may result in changing regulatory requirements, trade policies, import duties and economic disruptions that could impact our operating strategies, product demand, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. in particular, revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement could result in increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions and controls on imports or exports, or other retaliatory actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans. for example, regulations to implement the export control reform act of 2018 could have an adverse effect on our business plans. catastrophic events can also have an impact on third-party vendors who provide us critical infrastructure services for it and research and development systems and personnel. our operations 14 table of contents could be harmed if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. in the event a major earthquake or other disaster or catastrophic event affects us or the third-party systems on which we rely, our business could be harmed as a result of declines in revenue, increases in expenses, substantial expenditures and time spent to fully resume operations. if we fail to estimate customer demand properly, our financial results could be harmed. we manufacture our gpus and tegra processors based on estimates of customer demand and requirements. we sell many of our products through a channel model, and our channel customers sell to retailers, distributors, and/or end customers. as a result, the decisions made by our channel partners, retailers, and distributors in response to changing market conditions and the changing demand for our products could impact our financial results. in order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur, may build inventory anticipating demand that does not materialize, or may build inventory to serve what we believe is pent-up demand. such decisions may and have resulted in prolonged channel sell-through, as we experienced with our mid-range gaming gpus in fiscal year 2019. in estimating demand, we make multiple assumptions, any of which may prove to be incorrect. situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include: changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in our target markets and/or overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market; a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology or customer requirements; our introduction of new products resulting in lower demand for older products; less demand than expected for newly-introduced products; or increased competition, including competitive pricing actions. the cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. we could be required to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or market or write-off excess inventory, and we could experience a reduction in average selling prices if we incorrectly forecast product demand, any of which could harm our financial results. conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our foundry partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill customers' orders on a timely basis. we may also face supply constraints caused by natural disasters or other events. in such cases, even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely manner. if we fail to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, our customer relationships could be damaged, we could lose revenue and market share and our reputation could be damaged. we are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations, which may harm our business. we conduct our business worldwide and we have offices in various countries outside of the united states. our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the united states. we also generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales outside the united states. we allocate revenue to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if our customers' revenue is attributable to end customers that are located in a different location. revenue from sales outside of the united states accounted for 87% of total revenue for each of fiscal years 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 . revenue from billings to china, including hong kong, was 24% of our revenue for fiscal year 2019, even if our customers' revenue is attributable to end customers that are located in a different location. additionally, as of january 27, 2019 , approximately 46% of our employees were located outside of the united states. the global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: international economic and political conditions, including as a result of the united kingdom's vote to withdraw from the european union, and other political tensions between countries in which we do business; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including changes in tax laws; differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices; 15 table of contents local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anticorruption laws and regulations; exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, including deemed export restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; disruptions of capital and trading markets and currency fluctuations; and increased costs due to imposition of climate change regulations, such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits. if our sales outside of the united states are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. to be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. in particular, hiring qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff and research and development personnel is critical to our business. additionally, changes in immigration and work permit laws and regulations or the administration or interpretation of such laws or regulations could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. if we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. additionally, competition for personnel results in increased costs in the form of cash and stock-based compensation. the interpretation and application of employment related laws to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. we have in the past acquired and invested in, and may continue to acquire and invest in, other businesses that offer products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products, strategic objectives and business. the risks associated with past or future acquisitions or investments could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results. given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives. additional risks related to acquisitions or strategic investments include, but are not limited to: difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business; diversion of capital and other resources, including management's attention; assumption of liabilities and incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of acquired assets; difficulty in realizing a satisfactory return, if at all; difficulty in obtaining regulatory, other approvals or financing; failure and costs associated with the failure to consummate a proposed acquisition or other strategic investment; legal proceedings initiated as a result of an acquisition or investment; uncertainties and time needed to realize the benefits of an acquisition or strategic investment, if at all; the need to later divest acquired assets if an acquisition does not meet our expectations; potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues with the acquired assets or company; and impairment of relationships with, or loss of our or our target's, employees, vendors and customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. 16 table of contents risks related to regulatory, legal, our common stock and other matters actions to adequately protect our ip rights could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we are unsuccessful in doing so or if we are prohibited from making or selling our products. we have in the past, currently are, and may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us, our employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify for certain claims of infringement. an unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. claims that our products or processes infringe the ip rights of others, regardless of their merit, could cause us to incur significant costs to respond to, defend, and resolve such claims, and they may also divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel. we may commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to protect our intellectual property rights. such proceedings may increase our operating expenses, which could negatively impact our operating results. further, we could be subject to countersuits as a result of our initiation of litigation. if infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third party's patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third party's patent or other intellectual property rights. however, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. if we or one of our indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. we may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. our success depends in part on protecting our intellectual property. to accomplish this, we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements, and the laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, and even with significant expenditures we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights that are valuable to our business. the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. in addition, the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in research and development, product development, and marketing could be reduced. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing and new innovations and technologies, but cannot be certain whether our applications for such protections will be approved, and, if approved, whether we will be able to enforce such protections. our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline. our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future continue to fluctuate due to numerous factors. therefore, investors should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. factors, other than those described elsewhere in these risk factors, that could affect our results of operations in the future include, but are not limited to: our ability to achieve volume production of our next-generation products; our inability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to the multi-year development cycle for some of our products and services; fluctuations in the demand for our products related to cryptocurrencies; changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our partners' products; our ability to cover the manufacturing and design costs of our products through competitive pricing; our ability to comply and continue to comply with our customers' contractual obligations; product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues; our ability to secure appropriate safety certifications and meet industry safety standards; supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our products inventory write-downs; 17 table of contents our ability to continue generating revenue from our partner network, including by generating sales within our partner network and ensuring our products are incorporated into our partners product ecosystems, and our partner network's ability to sell products that incorporate our gpus and tegra processors; the inability of certain of our customers to make required payments to us, and our ability to obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to these customers; customer bad debt write-offs; any unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities; unexpected costs related to our ownership of real property; changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards; and general macroeconomic or industry events and factors affecting the overall market and our target markets. any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future financial results. any such failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors or security analysts could cause our stock price to decline or experience substantial price volatility. privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter current and potential users from using our products and services, result in liability, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. our products and services may provide us with access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business or by one of our partners could result in significantly increased security costs, damage to our reputation, regulatory proceedings, disruption of our business activities or increased costs related to defending legal claims. worldwide regulatory authorities are considering and have approved various legislative proposals concerning data protection, which continue to evolve and apply to our business. for example, the european union adopted the general data protection regulation, or gdpr, which requires companies to meet new requirements beginning in may 2018 regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. failure to meet gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. in addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, we may be ordered to change our data practices and/or be fined. complying with these changing laws has caused, and could continue to cause, us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our operating results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. further, changes in united states federal, and state or international tax laws applicable to multinational corporations or other fundamental law changes may materially impact our tax expense and cash flows, as we experienced in fiscal year 2018 with the passage of the tax cuts and jobs act, or tcja. our future effective tax rate may be affected by such factors as changes in tax laws, changes in our business or statutory rates, changes in jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed, changes in available tax credits, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits, changes in united states generally accepted accounting principles, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and in deferred tax valuation allowances, changing interpretation of existing laws or regulations, the impact of accounting for stock-based compensation and the recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies within the income tax provision in the period in which they occur, the impact of accounting for business combinations, shifts in the amount of earnings in the united states compared with other regions in the world and overall levels of income before tax, changes in our international organization, as well as the expiration of statute of limitations and settlements of audits. any changes in our effective tax rate may reduce our net income. 18 table of contents our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation, investigations and regulatory proceedings. we currently and may in the future face legal, administrative and regulatory proceedings, claims, demands and/or investigations involving shareholder, consumer, competition and/or other issues relating to our business on a global basis. for example, multiple securities litigation claims have recently been filed against us and certain of our officers based on the dissemination of allegedly false and misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on gpu demand. in addition, a stockholder, purporting to act on behalf of the company, filed a derivative lawsuit seeking to assert claims on behalf of the company against the members of our board of directors and certain officers based on the dissemination of allegedly false and misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on gpu demand. litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. an unfavorable outcome or settlement may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. in addition, regardless of the outcome, litigation can be costly, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. in addition, the laws and regulations our business is subject to are complex, and change frequently. we may be required to incur significant expense to comply with, or remedy violations of, these regulations. delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft corporation could delay or prevent a change in control. our status as a delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the delaware general corporation law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested shareholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. in addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of our board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior shareholder approval; the prohibition of shareholder action by written consent; advance notice requirements for director nominations and shareholder proposals; the ability of our board of directors to increase or decrease the number of directors without shareholder approval; a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; the inability of our shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and the ability of our board of directors to make, amend or repeal our bylaws. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investment and interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk related to our floating and fixed-rate investment portfolio and outstanding debt. the investment portfolio is managed consistent with our overall liquidity strategy in support of both working capital needs and strategic growth of our businesses. as of january 27, 2019 , we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 0.5% would result in a decrease in fair value for these investments of $8 million, or an increase in fair value for these investments of $7 million , respectively. in fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the notes due 2021 and $1.00 billion of the notes due 2026. we carry the notes at face value less unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. as the notes bear interest at a fixed rate, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. refer to note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. 34 table of contents foreign exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other income or expense and to date have not been significant. the impact of foreign currency transaction gain or loss included in determining net income was not significant for fiscal years 2019, 2018, and 2017. sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. additionally, we have international operations and incur expenditures in currencies other than u.s. dollars. our operating expenses benefit from a stronger dollar and are adversely affected by a weaker dollar. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses. we designate these contracts as cash flow hedges and assess the effectiveness of the hedge relationships on a spot to spot basis. gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, and then reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur. we also use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than u.s. dollar. these forward contracts were not designated for hedge accounting treatment. therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in other income or expense and offsets the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which is also recorded in other income or expense. refer to note 10 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information.risk factors 12 risk factors in evaluating nvidia and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation, which could cause our stock price to decline, and you may lose all or a part of your investment. additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. risks related to our business, industry and partners if we fail to meet the evolving needs of our markets, or identify new products, services or technologies, our revenue and financial results may be adversely impacted. we created gpu-based visual and accelerated computing platforms that address four large markets: gaming, professional visualization, data center, and automotive. these markets often experience rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, new product introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards. our success depends on our ability to identify emerging industry changes and to develop new (or enhance our existing) products, services and technologies that meet the evolving needs of these markets. such activities may require considerable technical, financial, compliance, sales and marketing investments. we devote significant resources to the development of technologies and business offerings in markets where we have a limited operating history, such as the automotive and data center markets, which presents additional risks to our business. we must also continue to develop the infrastructure needed to scale our business in these areas, including customer service and support. we also must meet customer safety and compliance standards, which are subject to change. additionally, we continue to make considerable investments in research and development, which may not produce significant revenue for several years, if at all. if our investments are unsuccessful and we fail to develop new products, services and technologies, or if we focus on technologies that do not become widely adopted, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. we cannot assure you that our strategic direction will result in innovative products and technologies that provide value to our customers, partners and ultimately, our shareholders. if we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our target markets and emerging technology trends, or if we do not appropriately adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve, in a timely manner to exploit potential market opportunities, our business will be harmed. competition in our current and target markets could prevent us from growing our revenue. our target markets remain extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product and/or service offerings, industry standards continue to evolve, customer needs change and new competitors enter these markets. our competitors' products, services and technologies may be less costly, or may offer superior functionality or better features, than ours, which may result, among other things, in lower than expected selling prices for our products. in addition, some of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, more comprehensive intellectual property, or ip, portfolios and patent protections, and greater financial, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. these competitors may be able to more effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets and end user customer trends, quickly transition their products, including semiconductor products, to increasingly smaller line width geometries, and obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials, which could harm our business. if we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets, respond to changes in our target markets or introduce new offerings to meet the needs of this competitive environment, including in significant international markets such as china, demand for our products, services and technologies could decrease, which would cause our revenue to decline and cause our results of operations to suffer. in addition, the competitive landscape in our target markets has changed and may continue to evolve due to a trend toward consolidation, which could lead to fewer customers, partners, or suppliers, any of which could negatively affect our financial results. system security and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce our expected revenue and increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation. security breaches, computer malware, phishing, and cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. these threats are constantly evolving, making it increasingly difficult to successfully defend against them or 12 table of contents implement adequate preventative measures. these attacks have occurred on our systems in the past and are expected to occur in the future. experienced computer programmers, hackers and employees may penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information, or that of our employees or third parties. these attacks may create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. these hackers may also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities in our products, including consumer and automotive products, where we utilize over-the-air updates to improve functionality over time. for portions of our it infrastructure, including business management and communication software products, we rely on products and services provided by third parties. these providers may also experience breaches and attacks to their products which may impact our systems. data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, such as actions by an employee with access to our systems. to defend against security threats, both to our internal systems and those of our customers, we must continuously engineer more secure products and enhance security and reliability features, which may result in increased expenses. actual or perceived breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our partners, our customers or third parties could expose us and the parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability, paying damages, regulatory inquiries or actions, damage to our brand and reputation or other harm to our business. our efforts to prevent and overcome these challenges could increase our expenses and may not be successful. we may experience interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other critical functions. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers as a result of these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. we depend on third parties and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test and/or package our products, which reduces our control over product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, development, enhancement and product delivery schedule and could harm our business. we do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our gpus and tegra processors and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company limited and samsung electronics co. ltd., to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. similarly, we do not directly assemble, test or package our products, but instead rely on independent subcontractors. we do not have long-term commitment contracts with these foundries or subcontractors. as a result, we face several significant risks which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results, including: a lack of guaranteed supply of wafers and other components and potential higher wafer and component prices due to supply constraints; a failure by our foundries to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate or any manufacturing or test capacity for our products; a failure to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies such as advanced process node technologies and memory designs needed to manufacture our products profitably or on a timely basis; a limited number of suppliers, including foundries, assembly and test providers, and memory manufacturers; loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or subcontractor and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier; a lack of direct control over delivery schedules or product quantity and quality; and delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or higher expenses in the event our subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors' orders over our orders or otherwise. in addition, low manufacturing yields could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand, increase manufacturing costs, harm customer or partner relationships, and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results. manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the foundry. low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. we do not know whether a yield problem will exist until our design is actually manufactured by the foundry. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the manufacturing process and require us and the foundry to cooperate to resolve the problem. we also rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements, and to bring such new products and enhancements to market in a timely manner. in the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products and enhancements as a result of the inability of then available 13 table of contents software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. if we miss design cycles or lose design wins due to the unavailability of such software development tools, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline. if we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed. for our products that we do not sell directly to consumers, achieving design wins is an important success factor. achieving design wins may involve a lengthy process in pursuit of a customer opportunity and depend on our ability to anticipate features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand. failure to obtain a particular design win may prevent us from obtaining design wins in subsequent generations of a particular product. this could result in lost revenue and could weaken our position in future competitive bid selection processes. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. further, if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, including safety standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. winning a product design does not guarantee sales to a customer or that we will realize as much revenue as anticipated, if any. if our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged, and we could lose market share. our products are complex and may contain defects or security vulnerabilities, or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. these risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, markets, technologies and applications, including into the automotive market, or as new versions are released. some errors in our products or services may only be discovered after a product or service has been shipped or used by customers or the end users of such product. undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products or services could expose our customers or end users to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that could attack our products or services. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to the products we sell directly to customers, the end product in which our device has been integrated by oems, odms, aibs and tier 1 automotive suppliers, and to the user of such end product. any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, write off the value of related inventory, cause us to lose market share, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue. in addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins, harm our relationships with customers and partners and harm consumers' perceptions of our brand. also, we may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or consumers, including costs to repair or replace products in the field. a product recall, including automotive recalls or a recall due to a bug in our products, or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract new customers, result in the shifting of business to our competitors and result in litigation against us, such as product liability suits. if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our financial results. business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, outages at cloud service providers, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. the occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in california, and other critical business operations, finished goods inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, a large portion of our current data center capacity is located in california, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical areas. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including taiwan, china, hong kong, and korea. additionally, a significant portion of our finished goods product distribution occurs through hong kong. geopolitical change or changes in government regulations and policies in the united states or abroad may result in changing regulatory requirements, trade policies, import duties and economic disruptions that could impact our operating strategies, product demand, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. in particular, revisions to laws or regulations or their 14 table of contents interpretation and enforcement could result in increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions and controls on imports or exports, or other retaliatory actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans. for example, regulations to implement the export control reform act of 2018 could have an adverse effect on our business plans. catastrophic events can also have an impact on third-party vendors who provide us critical infrastructure services for it and research and development systems and personnel. our operations could be harmed if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. in the event a major earthquake or other disaster or catastrophic event affects us or the third-party systems on which we rely, our business could be harmed as a result of declines in revenue, increases in expenses, substantial expenditures and time spent to fully resume operations. in january 2020, a novel strain of coronavirus was identified in china, resulting in shutdowns of manufacturing and commerce, as well as global travel restrictions to contain the virus. the impact has extended to other regions. we have operations and employees in china, and the region represents an important end market for our products. our customers and suppliers within china and neighboring countries are also affected by the coronavirus related restrictions and closures. the coronavirus is expected to have a negative effect on our financial results, though the full extent and duration is uncertain and could have a material negative impact on our business. if we fail to estimate customer demand properly, our financial results could be harmed. we manufacture our gpus and tegra processors based on estimates of customer demand and requirements. we sell many of our products through a channel model, and our channel customers sell to retailers, distributors, and/or end customers. as a result, the decisions made by our channel partners, retailers, and distributors in response to changing market conditions and the changing demand for our products could impact our financial results. in order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers, we may build inventories for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur, may build inventory anticipating demand that does not materialize, or may build inventory to serve what we believe is pent-up demand. such decisions may and have resulted in prolonged channel sell-through, as we experienced with our mid-range gaming gpus in fiscal year 2019. in estimating demand, we make multiple assumptions, any of which may prove to be incorrect. situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include: changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in our target markets and/or overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market; a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology or customer requirements; our introduction of new products resulting in lower demand for older products; less demand than expected for newly-introduced products; or increased competition, including competitive pricing actions. the cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. we could be required to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or market or write-off excess inventory, and we could experience a reduction in average selling prices if we incorrectly forecast product demand, any of which could harm our financial results. conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our foundry partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill customers' orders on a timely basis. we may also face supply constraints caused by natural disasters or other events. in such cases, even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely manner. if we fail to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, our customer relationships could be damaged, we could lose revenue and market share and our reputation could be damaged. we receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers within our partner network and our revenue could be adversely affected if we lose or are prevented from selling to any of these customers. we receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers within our distribution and partner network. with several of these distributors and partners, we are selling multiple target market platforms through their channels. for fiscal year 2020, 11% of our total revenue was from one customer, dell. our operating results in the foreseeable 15 table of contents future will continue to depend on sales within our partner network, as well as the ability of these partners to sell products that incorporate our gpus and tegra processors. in the future, these partners may decide to purchase fewer products than they did in the past, not to incorporate our products into their ecosystem, or to alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; our partners may develop their own solutions; our customers may purchase products from our competitors; or our partners may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. we could also be restricted from selling our products or providing our technology and services due to u.s. trade restrictions. the loss of any of our large customers, a significant reduction in purchases by them, or our inability to sell to a customer due to u.s. trade restrictions would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations, and any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could harm our operating results and financial condition. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of certain of our customers to make required payments and obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to these customers. in the future, we may have to record additional provisions or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions, which could negatively impact our financial results, and we may not be able to acquire credit insurance on the credit we extend to these customers or in amounts that we deem sufficient. we are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations, which may harm our business. we conduct our business worldwide and we have offices in various countries outside of the united states. our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the united states. we also generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales outside the united states. we allocate revenue to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if our customers' revenue is attributable to end customers that are located in a different location. revenue from sales outside of the united states accounted for 92% of total revenue for fiscal year 2020 , and 87% for each of fiscal years 2019 and 2018 . revenue from billings to china, including hong kong, was 25% of our revenue for fiscal year 2020, even if our customers' revenue is attributable to end customers that are located in a different location. additionally, as of january 26, 2020 , approximately 46% of our employees were located outside of the united states. the global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: international economic and political conditions, including as a result of the united kingdom's vote to withdraw from the european union, and other political tensions between countries in which we do business; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including changes in tax laws; differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anticorruption laws and regulations; exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, including deemed export restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; disruptions of capital and trading markets and currency fluctuations; and increased costs due to imposition of climate change regulations, such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits. if our sales outside of the united states are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. to be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees. the market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. in particular, hiring qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff and research and development personnel is critical to our business. additionally, changes in immigration and work permit laws and regulations or the administration or interpretation of such laws or regulations could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. if we are less successful 16 table of contents in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. additionally, competition for personnel results in increased costs in the form of cash and stock-based compensation. the interpretation and application of employment related laws to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or strategic investments, including the mellanox acquisition, and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. we have in the past acquired and invested in, and may continue to acquire and invest in, other businesses that offer products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products, strategic objectives and business. in march 2019, we announced our agreement to acquire mellanox for approximately $6.9 billion. the mellanox acquisition and other past or future acquisitions or investments involve significant challenges and risks, and could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results. given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives. additional risks related to the mellanox acquisition, and other acquisitions or strategic investments include, but are not limited to: difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business; diversion of capital and other resources, including management's attention; assumption of liabilities and incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of acquired assets; integrating financial forecasting and controls, procedures and reporting cycles; coordinating and integrating operations in countries in which we have not previously operated; difficulty in realizing a satisfactory return, if at all; difficulty in obtaining regulatory, other approvals or financing; failure and costs associated with the failure to consummate a proposed acquisition or other strategic investment; legal proceedings initiated as a result of an acquisition or investment; uncertainties and time needed to realize the benefits of an acquisition or strategic investment, if at all; negative changes in general economic conditions in the regions or the industries in which we or our target operate; the need to later divest acquired assets if an acquisition does not meet our expectations; potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues with the acquired assets or company; and impairment of relationships with, or loss of our or our target's, employees, vendors and customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. risks related to regulatory, legal, our common stock and other matters actions to adequately protect our ip rights could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we are unsuccessful in doing so or if we are prohibited from making or selling our products. we have in the past, currently are, and may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us, our employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify for certain claims of infringement. an unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. claims that our products or processes infringe the ip rights of others, regardless of their merit, could cause us to incur significant costs to respond to, defend, and resolve such claims, and they may also divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel. we may commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to protect our intellectual property rights. such proceedings may increase our operating expenses, which could negatively impact our operating results. further, we could be subject to countersuits as a result of our initiation of litigation. if infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third party's patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third party's patent or other intellectual property rights. however, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. if we or one of our indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from 17 table of contents a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. we may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. our success depends in part on protecting our intellectual property. to accomplish this, we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements, and the laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, and even with significant expenditures we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights that are valuable to our business. the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. in addition, the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in research and development, product development, and marketing could be reduced. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing and new innovations and technologies, but cannot be certain whether our applications for such protections will be approved, and, if approved, whether we will be able to enforce such protections. our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline. our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future continue to fluctuate due to numerous factors. therefore, investors should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. factors, other than those described elsewhere in these risk factors, that could affect our results of operations in the future include, but are not limited to: our ability to achieve volume production of our next-generation products; our inability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to the multi-year development cycle for some of our products and services; fluctuations in the demand for our products related to cryptocurrencies; changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our partners' products; our ability to cover the manufacturing and design costs of our products through competitive pricing; our ability to comply and continue to comply with our customers' contractual obligations; product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues; our ability to secure appropriate safety certifications and meet industry safety standards; supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our products inventory write-downs; our ability to continue generating revenue from our partner network, including by generating sales within our partner network and ensuring our products are incorporated into our partners product ecosystems, and our partner network's ability to sell products that incorporate our gpus and tegra processors; the inability of certain of our customers to make required payments to us, and our ability to obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to these customers; customer bad debt write-offs; any unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities; unexpected costs related to our ownership of real property; changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards; and general macroeconomic or industry events and factors affecting the overall market and our target markets. any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future financial results. any such failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors or security analysts could cause our stock price to decline or experience substantial price volatility. 18 table of contents privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter current and potential users from using our products and services, result in liability, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. our products and services may provide us with access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business or by one of our partners could result in significantly increased security costs, damage to our reputation, regulatory proceedings, disruption of our business activities or increased costs related to defending legal claims. worldwide regulatory authorities are considering and have approved various legislative proposals concerning data protection, which continue to evolve and apply to our business. for example, the european union adopted the general data protection regulation, or gdpr, which requires companies to meet new requirements effective as of may 2018 regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. failure to meet gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. in addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, we may be ordered to change our data practices and/or be fined. complying with these changing laws has caused, and could continue to cause, us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. further, failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our operating results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. further, changes in united states federal, and state or international tax laws applicable to multinational corporations or other fundamental law changes may materially impact our tax expense and cash flows, as we experienced in fiscal year 2018 with the passage of the tax cuts and jobs act, or tcja. our future effective tax rate may be affected by such factors as changes in tax laws, changes in our business or statutory rates, changes in jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed, changes in available tax credits, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits, changes in united states generally accepted accounting principles, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and in deferred tax valuation allowances, changing interpretation of existing laws or regulations, the impact of accounting for stock-based compensation and the recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies within the income tax provision in the period in which they occur, the impact of accounting for business combinations, shifts in the amount of earnings in the united states compared with other regions in the world and overall levels of income before tax, changes in our international organization, as well as the expiration of statute of limitations and settlements of audits. any changes in our effective tax rate may reduce our net income. our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation, investigations and regulatory proceedings. we currently and may in the future face legal, administrative and regulatory proceedings, claims, demands and/or investigations involving shareholder, consumer, competition and/or other issues relating to our business on a global basis. for example, multiple securities litigation claims have recently been filed against us and certain of our officers based on the dissemination of allegedly false and misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on gpu demand. in addition, a stockholder, purporting to act on behalf of the company, filed a derivative lawsuit seeking to assert claims on behalf of the company against the members of our board of directors and certain officers based on the dissemination of allegedly false and misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on gpu demand. litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. an unfavorable outcome or settlement may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. in addition, regardless of the outcome, litigation can be costly, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. 19 table of contents in addition, the laws and regulations our business is subject to are complex and change frequently. we may be required to incur significant expense to comply with changes in, or remedy violations of, these laws and regulations. delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft corporation could delay or prevent a change in control. our status as a delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the delaware general corporation law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested shareholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. in addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of our board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior shareholder approval; the prohibition of shareholder action by written consent; advance notice requirements for director nominations and shareholder proposals; the ability of our board of directors to increase or decrease the number of directors without shareholder approval; a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; the inability of our shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and the ability of our board of directors to make, amend or repeal our bylaws. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk investment and interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate risk related to our floating and fixed-rate investment portfolio and outstanding debt. the investment portfolio is managed consistent with our overall liquidity strategy in support of both working capital needs and strategic growth of our businesses. as of january 26, 2020 , we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both plus or minus 0.5% would result in changes in fair values for these investments of $1 million. in fiscal year 2017, we issued $1.00 billion of the notes due 2021 and $1.00 billion of the notes due 2026. we carry the notes at face value less unamortized discount on our consolidated balance sheets. as the notes bear interest at a fixed rate, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. refer to note 12 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information. foreign exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in other income or expense and to date have not been significant. the impact of foreign currency transaction gain or loss included in determining net income was not significant for fiscal years 2020 and 2019. sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states' dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their 32 table of contents prices in order to continue doing business with us. additionally, we have international operations and incur expenditures in currencies other than u.s. dollars. our operating expenses benefit from a stronger dollar and are adversely affected by a weaker dollar. we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on our operating expenses. we designate these contracts as cash flow hedges and assess the effectiveness of the hedge relationships on a spot to spot basis. gains or losses on the contracts are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, and then reclassified to operating expense when the related operating expenses are recognized in earnings or ineffectiveness should occur. we also use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate the impact of foreign currency movements on monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than u.s. dollar. these forward contracts were not designated for hedge accounting treatment. therefore, the change in fair value of these contracts is recorded in other income or expense and offsets the change in fair value of the hedged foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, which is also recorded in other income or expense. refer to note 11 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for additional information.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 22 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in commercial paper, money market funds and highly liquid debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the u.s. government and its agencies. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. we account for our investment instruments in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 115 ( sfas no. 115 ), accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities . all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale under sfas no. 115. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because our debt securities are classified as available-for-sale , no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity. these securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. as of january 26, 2003, a sensitivity analysis was performed on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. parallel shifts in the yield curve of both +/-50 basis points would result in changes in fair market values for these investments of approximately $3.5 million. our convertible subordinated notes due 2007 possess a fixed interest rate of 4 % and are not subject to interest rate fluctuations. 22 table of contents exchange rate risk we consider our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. currently, sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in u.s. dollars, and therefore are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. to date, we have not engaged in any currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. business risks in addition to the risks discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, our business is subject to the risks set forth below. risks related to our operations our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors our stock price could decline. many of our revenue components fluctuate and are difficult to predict, and our operating expenses are largely independent of revenue in any particular period. it is therefore difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and profits or losses. as a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. we believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations will be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations. factors that have affected our results of operations in the past, and could affect our results of operations in the future, include the following: demand and market acceptance for our products and/or our customers products; the successful development and volume production of next-generation products; new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors; our ability to introduce new products in accordance with oem design requirements and design cycles; changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our customers products; fluctuations in the availability of manufacturing capacity or manufacturing yields; declines in spending by corporations and consumers related to perceptions regarding an economic downturn in the u.s. and international economies; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues; the rescheduling or cancellation of customer orders; the loss of a key customer or the termination of a strategic relationship; seasonal fluctuations associated with the pc market; substantial disruption in our suppliers operations, either as a result of a natural disaster, equipment failure, terrorism or other cause; supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our customers products, including memory devices; our ability to reduce the manufacturing costs of our products; legal and other costs related to defending intellectual property and other types of lawsuits; bad debt write-offs; 23 table of contents costs associated with the repair and replacement of defective products; unexpected inventory write-downs; and introductions of enabling technologies to keep pace with faster generations of processors and controllers. any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income. our operating expenses are relatively fixed, and we order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand. therefore, we have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. most of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, and we may be unable to adjust spending sufficiently in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected sales shortfall. substantially all of our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term agreements. as a result, we may commit resources to the production of products without having received advance purchase commitments from customers. any inability to sell products to which we have devoted significant resources could harm our business. in addition, cancellation or deferral of product orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our profit margins and restrict our ability to fund operations. we may build memory and component inventories during periods of anticipated growth and in connection with selling workstation boards directly to major oems. we could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding write-downs if growth slows or if we incorrectly forecast product demand. a reduction in demand could negatively impact our gross margins and financial results. we may be required to reduce prices in response to competition or to pursue new market opportunities. if new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development or sales and marketing efforts, our business could suffer. accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. in addition, the results of any quarterly period are not indicative of results to be expected for a full fiscal year. we need to develop new products and to manage product transitions in order to succeed. our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to successfully develop new products for the 3d graphics market. our add-in board and motherboard manufacturers and major oem customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles. accordingly, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products with such performance characteristics in order to be included in new system configurations. this requires that we do the following: anticipate the features and functionality that consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionality into products that meet the exacting design requirements of pc oems, cems and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers; price our products competitively; and introduce the products to the market within the limited window for pc oems and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. as a result, we believe that significant expenditures for research and development will continue to be required in the future. the success of new product introductions will depend on several factors, including the following: proper new product definition; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; 24 table of contents the ability of ibm, tsmc and any additional third-party manufacturers to effectively manufacture our new products in a timely manner; the quality of any new products; differentiation of new products from those of our competitors; market acceptance of our products and our customers products; and availability of adequate quantity and configurations of various types of memory products. our strategy is to utilize the most advanced semiconductor process technology appropriate for our products and available from commercial third-party foundries. use of advanced processes has in the past resulted in initial yield problems. new products that we introduce may not incorporate the features and functionality demanded by pc oems, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers and consumers of 3d graphics. in addition, we may not successfully develop or introduce new products in sufficient volumes within the appropriate time to meet both the pc oems design cycles and market demand. we have in the past experienced delays in the development of some new products. our failure to successfully develop, introduce or achieve market acceptance for new 3d graphics products would harm our business. in particular, we experienced delays in the introduction of graphics processors using our next generation technology during the second half of fiscal 2003 and any such delays in the future or failure of these or other processors to meet or exceed specifications of competitive products could materially harm our business. our failure to identify new product opportunities or develop new products could harm our business. as our 3d graphics processors develop and competition increases, we anticipate that product life cycles at the high end will remain short and average selling prices will continue to decline. in particular, we expect average selling prices and gross margins for our 3d graphics processors to decline as each product matures and as unit volume increases. as a result, we will need to introduce new products and enhancements to existing products to maintain overall average selling prices and gross margins. in order for our 3d graphics processors to achieve high volumes, leading pc oems and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers must select our 3d graphics processor for design into their products, and then successfully complete the designs of their products and sell them. we may be unable to successfully identify new product opportunities or to develop and bring to market in a timely fashion new products. in addition, we cannot guarantee that new products we develop will be selected for design into pc oems and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers products, that any new designs will be successfully completed or that any new products will be sold. as the complexity of our products and the manufacturing process for products increases, there is an increasing risk that we will experience problems with the performance of products and that there will be delays in the development, introduction or volume shipment of our products. we may experience difficulties related to the production of current or future products or other factors may delay the introduction or volume sale of new products we developed. in addition, we may be unable to successfully manage the production transition risks with respect to future products. failure to achieve any of the foregoing with respect to future products or product enhancements could result in rapidly declining average selling prices, reduced margins and reduced demand for products or loss of market share. in addition, technologies developed by others may render our 3d graphics products non-competitive or obsolete or result in our holding excess inventory, any of which would harm our business. we could suffer a loss of market share if our products contain significant defects. products as complex as those offered by us may contain defects or failures when introduced or when new versions or enhancements to existing products are released. we have in the past discovered defects and incompatibilities with customers hardware in certain of our products and may experience delays or loss of revenue to correct any new defects in the future. errors in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments could result in loss of market share or failure to achieve market acceptance. our products typically go through only one verification cycle prior to beginning volume production and distribution. as a result, our products may contain defects or flaws that are undetected prior to volume production and distribution. 25 table of contents if these defects or flaws exist and are not detected prior to volume production and distribution, we may be required to reimburse customers for costs to repair or replace the affected products in the field. these costs could be significant and could adversely affect our business and operating results. failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for existing and/or new products would reduce our gross margins. semiconductor manufacturing yields are a function both of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the manufacturer. since low yields may result from either design or process technology failures, yield problems may not be effectively determined or resolved until an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested to identify process sensitivities relating to the design rules that are used. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process, and resolution of yield problems would require cooperation by and communication between us and the manufacturer. the risk of low yields is compounded by the offshore location of most of our manufacturers, increasing the effort and time required to identify, communicate and resolve manufacturing yield problems. because of our potentially limited access to wafer fabrication capacity from our manufacturers, any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our per unit costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. this could potentially harm customer relationships, as well as revenue and gross profit. our wafer manufacturers may be unable to achieve or maintain acceptable manufacturing yields in the future. our inability to achieve planned yields from our wafer manufacturers could harm our business. we also face the risk of product recalls or product returns resulting from design or manufacturing defects that are not discovered during the manufacturing and testing process. in the event of a significant number of product returns due to a defect or recall, our business could suffer. failure to transition to new manufacturing process technologies could affect our ability to compete effectively. our strategy is to utilize the most advanced process technology appropriate for our products and available from commercial third-party foundries. use of advanced processes may have greater risk of initial yield problems. manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development. we continuously evaluate the benefits of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. we currently use 0.15-micron process technology for the geforce4, quadro4, geforce3, quadro dcc, xbox and nforce families of graphics processors, and we believe that the transition of our products to increasingly smaller geometries will be important to our competitive position. in november 2002, we introduced our newest flagship gpu, the geforce fx 5800 ultra, which is our first gpu to be manufactured in 0.13-micron process technology. other companies in the industry have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. we have experienced and may continue to experience similar difficulties and the corresponding negative effects. moreover, we are dependent on our relationships with our third-party manufacturers to migrate to smaller geometry processes successfully. we may be unable to migrate to new manufacturing process technologies successfully or on a timely basis. we may be unable to manage our growth and, as a result, may be unable to successfully implement our strategy. our rapid growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. as of january 26, 2003, we had 1,513 employees as compared to 1,123 employees as of january 27, 2002. we expect that the number of our employees will increase over the next 12 months. our future growth, if any, will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information and control systems on a timely basis, as well as our ability to maintain effective cost controls. further, we will be required to manage multiple relationships with various customers and other third parties. our systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support our operations and our management may be unable to achieve the rapid execution necessary to successfully implement our strategy. 26 table of contents we are dependent on key personnel and the loss of these employees could harm our business. our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. none of our officers or employees is bound by an employment agreement, and so our relationships with these officers and employees are at will. we do not have key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. the loss of the services of any of our executive officers, technical personnel or other key employees, particularly jen-hsun huang, our president and chief executive officer, would harm our business. our success will depend on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. our failure to attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel would harm our business. we are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. our reliance on foreign third-party manufacturing, assembly, testing and packaging operations subjects us to a number of risks associated with conducting business outside of the united states, including the following: unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; longer payment cycles; imposition of additional taxes and penalties; the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and other factors beyond our control, including terrorism and war, which may delay the shipment of our products. we also are subject to general political risks in connection with our international trade relationships. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. currently, all of our arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in u.s. dollars, and to date we have not engaged in any currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. hostilities involving the united states and/or terrorist attacks could harm our business. the financial, political, economic and other uncertainties following the terrorist attacks upon the united states have led to a weakening of the global economy. recent economic data, such as the united states unemployment rate and consumer confidence measures, appear to indicate that international hostilities involving the united states has further weakened the global economy. the reduction in business and investor confidence is also reflected in the weakening equity markets. subsequent terrorist acts and/or the threat of future outbreak or continued escalation of hostilities involving the united states or other countries could adversely affect the growth rate of our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers, distributors and suppliers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. failure in operation or future enhancement or implementation of our enterprise resource planning system could harm our operations. during fiscal 2003, we initiated an examination of sap a.g., our current enterprise resource planning, or erp, system to enhance our information systems in business, finance, operations and service. during fiscal 2003, we implemented certain additional functionalities based upon the results of the erp examination and we expect 27 table of contents to implement additional functionalities in fiscal 2004. if we are not able to implement additional functionalities to our current erp system or there are delays or downtime as a result of the implementation, the efficiency of our business applications and business operations could be harmed. we are heavily dependent upon the proper functioning of our internal systems to conduct our business. system failure or malfunctioning may result in disruptions of operations and inability to process transactions. our results of operations and financial position could be harmed if we encounter unforeseen problems with respect to system operations or future implementations. provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of the board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior stockholder approval; the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; a classified board of directors; and advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. in the event that an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft has first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the provision could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions and that could hurt our ability to grow our business and sell our products. in the past we have acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and technologies that we believed would help expand or enhance our products and services or help expand our distribution channels. for any previous or future acquisition or investment, the following risks could impair our ability to grow our business and develop new products and, ultimately, could impair our ability to sell our products: difficulty in combining the technology, operations or workforce of the acquired business; disruption of our ongoing businesses; difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and possible impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new businesses and management personnel. in addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and common stock. if the consideration is paid with our common stock, existing stockholders would be further diluted. risks related to our partners we are dependent on a small number of customers and we are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. we have only a limited number of customers and our sales are highly concentrated. we primarily sell our products to add-in board and motherboard manufacturers and cems, which incorporate graphics products in the 28 table of contents boards they sell to pc oems and system builders. sales to add-in board and motherboard manufacturers and cems are primarily dependent on achieving design wins with leading pc oems. the number of add-in board and motherboard manufacturers, cems and leading pc oems is limited. we expect that a small number of add-in board and motherboard manufacturers and cems directly, and a small number of pc oems indirectly, will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. as a result, our business could be harmed by the loss of business from pc oems or add-in board and motherboard manufacturers and cems. in addition, revenue from add-in board and motherboard manufacturers, cems and pc oems that have directly or indirectly accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, may not continue, or may not reach or exceed historical levels in any future period. our business may be harmed by instability in asia due to the concentration of customers who are located or have substantial operations in asia, including taiwan. the people republic of china and taiwan have in the past experienced strained relations. a worsening of these relationships or the development of hostilities between the two could result in disruptions in taiwan and possibly other areas of asia, which could harm our business. in addition, if relations between the u.s. and the people republic of china become strained, our business could be harmed. while we believe political instability in asia has not harmed our business, because of our reliance on companies with operations in asia, continued economic and political instability in asia might harm it. difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could result in significant charges against income, which could harm our business. our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers businesses and to downturns in the economy and the industry. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. this allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure, excluding the amounts covered by credit insurance. if the financial condition of our customers or insurance carrier were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required which could adversely affect our operating results. furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to attain credit insurance in the future. we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs in the future, which could harm our business. we rely on third-party vendors to supply us tools for the development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools necessary to develop these products. in the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party software development tools. while we currently are not dependent on any one vendor for the supply of these tools, some or all of these tools may not be readily available in the future. for example, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products in the past as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from 3d graphics products in the future may exceed the capabilities of the software development tools available to us. if the software development tools we use become unavailable or fail to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could suffer. there can be no assurance that the xbox program will achieve long term commercial success. there can be no assurance that the xbox program will achieve long term commercial success, given the high level of competition in the game console product line. during fiscal 2003, sales of xbox processors comprised 23% of our overall revenue. if the xbox program is not successful, our business may be harmed. we depend on foreign foundries and independent contractors to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our business. we do not manufacture the semiconductor wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. our products require wafers manufactured with state-of-the-art fabrication equipment and techniques. we primarily utilize tsmc to produce our semiconductor wafers and utilize independent 29 table of contents subcontractors to perform assembly, testing and packaging. we depend on these suppliers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields, and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis. these manufacturers may be unable to meet our near-term or long-term manufacturing requirements. we obtain manufacturing services on a purchase order basis and tsmc has no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantities of product. tsmc fabricates wafers for other companies, including certain of our competitors, and could choose to prioritize capacity for other users or reduce or eliminate deliveries to us on short notice. because the lead-time needed to establish a strategic relationship with a new manufacturing partner could be several quarters, there is no readily available alternative source of supply for any specific product. we believe that long-term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with tsmc and any other manufacturers used by us to ensure adequate product supply to respond to customer demand. our wafer requirements represent a significant portion of the total production capacity of tsmc. although our products are designed using tsmc process design rules, tsmc may be unable to achieve or maintain acceptable yields or deliver sufficient quantities of wafers on a timely basis and/or at an acceptable cost. additionally, tsmc may not continue to devote resources to the production of our products, or to advance the process design technologies on which the manufacturing of our products are based. any difficulties like these would harm our business. because of our reliance on tsmc, our business may be harmed by political instability in taiwan, including the worsening of the strained relations between the people republic of china and taiwan, or if relations between the u.s. and the people republic of china are strained due to foreign relations events. furthermore, any substantial disruption in our suppliers operations, either as a result of a natural disaster, political unrest, economic instability, acts of terrorism or war, equipment failure or other cause, could harm our business. there can be no assurance that ibm will be able to produce wafers of acceptable quality and with acceptable manufacturing yield and deliver those wafers to us and our independent assembly and testing subcontractors on a timely basis. on march 26, 2003, we announced that we have formed a multi-year strategic alliance under which ibm will manufacture our next-generation geforce gpus. as part of the agreement, we will gain access to ibm suite of foundry services and manufacturing technologies, including power-efficient copper wiring, and a roadmap that is designed to lead to 65nm (nanometer; a billionth of a meter) in the next several years, giving us valuable tools to advance our gpus. ibm plans to begin manufacturing the next-generation geforce graphics processor this summer at ibm plant in east fishkill, new york. during the development of our relationship with ibm, our manufacturing yields and product performance could suffer due to difficulties associated with adapting our technology and product design to the proprietary process technology and design rules of ibm. any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our per unit costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. this could potentially harm customer relationships as well as revenue and gross profit. we also face the risk of product recalls or product returns resulting from design or manufacturing defects that are not discovered during the manufacturing and testing process. in the event of a significant number of product returns due to a defect or recall, our business could suffer. we are dependent on third parties for assembly, testing and packaging of our products. our graphics processors are assembled and tested by siliconware precision industries company ltd., amkor technology, chippac incorporated and advanced semiconductor engineering. we do not have long-term agreements with any of these subcontractors. as a result of our dependence on third-party subcontractors for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, we do not directly control product delivery schedules or product quality. any product shortages or quality assurance problems could increase the costs of manufacture, assembly or testing of our products and could harm our business. due to the amount of time 30 table of contents typically required to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in the shipment of our products if we are required to find alternative third parties to assemble or test our products or components. any delays in delivery of our products could harm our business. risks related to our competition the 3d graphics industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete. the market for 3d graphics processors for pcs in which we compete is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. we believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, backward-forward software support, conformity to industry standard apis, manufacturing capabilities, price of graphics processors and total system costs of add-in boards and motherboards. we expect competition to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than our 3d graphics processors, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. we may be unable to compete successfully in the emerging pc graphics market. our primary source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide 3d graphics solutions for the pc market. our competitors include the following: suppliers of integrated core logic chipsets that incorporate 3d graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as intel, silicon integrated systems, ati technologies inc. and via technologies, inc.; suppliers of graphics add-in boards that utilize their internally developed graphics chips, such as ati technologies inc., creative technology and matrox electronics systems ltd.; suppliers of mobile graphics processors that incorporate 3d graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ati technologies inc., trident microsystems, inc. and the joint venture of a division of sonicblue incorporated (formerly s3 incorporated) and via technologies, inc.; and companies that have traditionally focused on the professional market and provide high end 3d solutions for pcs and workstations, including 3dlabs (a creative technology company) and ati technologies inc. if and to the extent we offer products outside of the 3d graphics processor market, we may face competition from some of our existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. we cannot accurately predict if we will compete successfully in any new markets we may enter. we may not successfully compete with intel in the integrated chipset product line. it is projected by analysts that integrated chipsets are likely to become a majority share of the pc graphics market. we have recently introduced and begun shipment of the nforce2 platform processor, our second generation integrated 3d graphics chipset. the nforce platform processor is initially designed to support microprocessors produced by amd. intel is the dominant supplier of integrated 3d graphics chipsets. intel has significantly greater resources than we do, and the nforce platform processor, or other 3d graphics products that we may introduce, may not compete effectively against intel current chipset products or its future products, either in terms of price or performance. in addition, due to the widespread industry acceptance of intel microprocessor architecture and interface architecture, including its accelerated graphics port architecture, or agp, intel exercises significant influence over the pc industry and over companies developing products for such architecture. any significant modifications by intel to the agp, the microprocessor or core logic components or other aspects of the pc microprocessor architecture could result in incompatibility with our technology, which would harm our business. 31 table of contents in addition, any delay in the public release of information relating to modifications like this could harm our business. in addition to its influence over the pc architecture, intel has asserted intellectual property rights in various pc architecture interfaces. for example, as a result of patents held by intel, it has asserted that companies wishing to develop a chipset compatible with the pentium 4 microprocessor or similar microprocessors obtain a license from intel. we believe that the principal competitive factors in the market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, backward-forward software support, conformity to industry standard apis, manufacturing capabilities, price of graphics processors and total system costs of add-in boards and motherboards. in september 2001 intel filed a patent infringement suit against via technologies, inc. with respect to a via technologies, inc. chipset for the pentium 4. we do not have a license from intel for such a chipset. we expect intel to continue to do the following: invest heavily in research and development and continue development of integrated 3d graphics products; maintain its position as the largest manufacturer of pc microprocessors; use its intellectual property position with respect to the pc microprocessor and architecture to defend its position in 3d graphics, including the filing of patent infringement suits against competitors; follow business practices in its pc business, which strongly encourage use of intel integrated chipsets; increasingly dominate the pc platform; and promote its product offerings through advertising campaigns designed to engender brand loyalty among pc users. our failure to achieve one or more design wins would harm our business. our future success will depend in large part on achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen as the 3d graphics processors for hardware components or subassemblies designed by pc oems and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. our add-in board and motherboard manufacturers and major oem customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, generally based on spring and fall design cycles. accordingly, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products with such performance characteristics in order to be included in new system configurations. our failure to achieve one or more design wins would harm our business. the process of being qualified for inclusion in a pc oem product can be lengthy and could cause us to miss a cycle in the demand of end users for a particular product feature, which also could harm our business. our ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers, including intel and microsoft. this would require us to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards for a significant period of time, our ability to achieve design wins could suffer. risks related to financial and market conditions we are dependent on the pc market and the slowdown in its growth has and may in the future have a negative impact on our business. during fiscal 2003, we derived most of our revenue from the sale of products for use in the desktop pc market, from professional workstations to low-cost pcs. we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from the sale or license of products for use in the desktop pc market in the next several years. the pc market is 32 table of contents characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and significant price competition. these factors result in short product life cycles and regular reductions of average selling prices over the life of a specific product. a reduction in sales of pcs, or a reduction in the growth rate of pc sales, will reduce demand for our products. moreover, changes in demand could be large and sudden. since pc manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they have incorrectly forecast product transitions. in these cases, pc manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inventory from suppliers like us until the excess inventory has been absorbed. the slowing of both the domestic and international economy has led to a reduction in the demand for pcs and to a reduction in inventory purchases by pc manufacturers, which adversely impacted our revenue during fiscal 2003. any continued reduction in the demand for pcs generally, or for a particular product that incorporates our 3d graphic processors, could harm our business. the acceptance of next generation products in business pc 3d graphics may not continue to develop. our success will depend in part upon the demand for performance 3d graphics for business pc applications. the market for performance 3d graphics on business pcs has only recently begun to emerge and is dependent on the future development of, and substantial end-user and oem demand for, 3d graphics functionality. as a result, the market for business pc 3d graphics computing may not continue to develop or may not grow at a rate sufficient to support our business. the development of the market for performance 3d graphics in business pcs will in turn depend on the development and availability of a large number of business pc software applications that support or take advantage of performance 3d graphics capabilities. currently, there are only a limited number of software applications like this, most of which are games, and a broader base of software applications may not develop in the near term or at all. consequently, a broad market for full function performance 3d graphics on business pcs may not develop. our business prospects will suffer if the market for business pc 3d graphics fails to develop or develops more slowly than expected. our 3d graphics solution may not continue to be accepted by the pc market. our success will depend in part upon continued broad adoption of our 3d graphics processors for high performance 3d graphics in pc applications. the market for 3d graphics processors has been characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in dynamic random memory devices pricing and other changes in the total system cost of add-in boards, as well as by severe price competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. only a small number of products have achieved broad market acceptance and such market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition. since the pc market is our core business, our business would suffer if for any reason our current or future 3d graphics processors do not continue to achieve widespread acceptance in the pc market. if we are unable to complete the timely development of products, or if we were unable to successfully and cost-effectively manufacture and deliver products that meet the requirements of the pc market, our business would be harmed. the semiconductor industry is cyclical in nature and an industry downturn could harm our business. the semiconductor industry historically has been characterized by the following factors: rapid technological change; cyclical market patterns; significant average selling price erosion; fluctuating inventory levels; alternating periods of overcapacity and capacity constraints; and variations in manufacturing costs and yields and significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development. 33 table of contents in addition, the industry has experienced significant economic downturns at various times, characterized by diminished product demand and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in results of operations due to general semiconductor industry conditions. our stock price may continue to experience significant short-term fluctuations. the price of our common stock has fluctuated greatly. these price fluctuations have been rapid and severe. the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly in the future due to factors that are non-company specific, such as the decline in the u.s. economy, acts of terror against the u.s., war or due to a variety of company specific factors, including quarter to quarter variations in our operating results, shortfalls in revenue or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and the other factors discussed above in these risk factors. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company stock, securities class action litigation has been initiated against the issuing company. since february 2002, multiple securities class action lawsuits and several derivative suits have been filed against us. we expect that this litigation, whether or not resolved favorably, may result in substantial cost and a diversion of management attention and resources, which could harm our revenues and earnings. any adverse determination in this litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. see legal proceedings and note 9 of the notes to consolidated financial statements for a description of this litigation. we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates. for additional information regarding risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and interest rates, see item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk. risks related to intellectual property, litigation and government action our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights or positions that could result in substantial costs to us. the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which has resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. the 3d graphics market in particular has been characterized recently by the aggressive pursuit of intellectual property positions, and we expect our competitors to continue to pursue aggressive intellectual property positions. in addition, from time to time we receive notices or are included in legal actions alleging that we have infringed patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. we expect that, as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases, and as competition in our product lines intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims may increase. if infringement claims are made against us, we may seek licenses under the claimants patents or other intellectual property rights. however, licenses may not be offered at all or on terms acceptable to us, particularly by competitors. the failure to obtain a license from a third party for technology used by us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture of and sale of one or more products, which could reduce our revenues and harm our business. furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. we have agreed to indemnify certain customers for claims of infringement arising out of sale of our products. litigation against us or our customers concerning infringement would likely result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. we are currently subject to claims of patent infringement, and we may be subject to patent infringement claims or suits brought by other parties in the future. we do not believe that current actions will have a material impact on our business or financial condition. however, these claims and any future lawsuits could divert our resources and result in the payment of substantial damages. 34 table of contents our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property. our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. in addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. the enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. we have licensed technology from third parties for incorporation in our graphics processors, and expect to continue to enter into license agreements for future products. these licenses may result in royalty payments to third parties, the cross-licensing of technology by us or payment of other consideration. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could suffer. future actions by the sec or other governmental or regulatory agencies and resolution of related litigation arising out of the restatement of our financial statements or other matters could harm our business. the staff of the enforcement division of the securities &amp; exchange commission ( sec ) informed us in january 2002 that it had concerns relating to certain accounting matters and that the sec along with the u.s. attorney office for the northern district of california had authorized investigations into such matters. in accordance with the suggestion and advice of the sec staff, we launched a review of these matters. on april 29, 2002, we announced that the audit committee of our board of directors had, with assistance from the law firm of cooley godward llp and forensic auditors from the accounting firm of kpmg llp, concluded its review and determined that it was appropriate to restate our financial statements for fiscal 2000, 2001 and the first three quarters of fiscal 2002. the audit committee has worked and continues to work in cooperation with the sec. after receiving a wells notice indicating the sec staff intended to recommend to the sec that an enforcement action be initiated, we reached an agreement in principle with the sec staff in april 2003 that would resolve the sec investigation of us in matters related to the restatement. the agreement is subject to final approval of the sec. under the terms of the agreement in principle, nvidia, without admitting or denying liability or wrongdoing, would agree to an administrative cease and desist order prohibiting any future violations of certain non-fraud financial reporting, books and records, and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws. we would not be required to pay any fines or penalties. the documentation of the agreement and the sec review of the agreement may take several weeks or months to complete. further, there can be no assurance that the agreement will be approved by the sec. notwithstanding the above, actions by the sec or other governmental or regulatory agencies with respect to us or our personnel arising out of the restatement of our financial statements or other matters may take significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns and harm our business.risk factors 12 risk factors , item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities , item 6. selected financial data , and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations all references to nvidia, we, us, our or the company mean nvidia corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company. nvidia, geforce, sli, goforce, nvidia quadro, nvidia nforce, turbocache, purevideo and the nvidia logo are our trademarks or registered trademarks in the united states and other countries that are used in this document. we may also refer to trademarks of other corporations and organizations in this document. 1 table of contents overview our company nvidia corporation is the worldwide leader in programmable graphics processor technologies. our products enhance the end-user experience on consumer and professional computing devices. we have four major product-line operating segments: graphics processing units, or gpus, media and communications processors, or mcps, handheld gpus, and consumer electronics. our gpu business is composed of products that support desktop personal computers, or pcs, notebook pcs and professional workstations; our mcp business is composed of nvidia nforce products that operate as a single-chip or chipset that can off-load system functions, such as audio processing and network communications, and perform these operations independently from the host central processing unit, or cpu; our handheld gpu business is composed of products that support handheld personal digital assistants, cellular phones and other handheld devices; and our consumer electronics business is concentrated in products that support video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices and is composed of our contractual arrangements with sony computer entertainment, or sce, to jointly develop a custom gpu incorporating our next-generation geforce gpu and sce system solutions in sce playstation3, sales of our xbox-related products, revenue from our license agreement with microsoft corporation, or microsoft, relating to the successor product to their initial xbox gaming console, the xbox360, and related devices, and digital media processor products. we were incorporated in california in april 1993 and reincorporated in delaware in april 1998. our headquarter facilities are in santa clara, california. our internet address is www.nvidia.com . original equipment manufacturers, or oems, original design manufacturers, or odms, add-in-card manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies worldwide utilize nvidia digital media processors as a core component of their entertainment and business solutions. our award-winning gpus deliver superior performance and crisp visual quality for pc-based applications such as manufacturing, science, e-business, entertainment and education. our critically-acclaimed mcps perform highly demanding multimedia processing for secure broadband connectivity, communications and breakthrough audio functions. our handheld gpus deliver an advanced visual experience by accelerating graphics and video applications while implementing design techniques that result in high performance and low power consumption. our business gpu business the combination of the programmable gpu with microsoft s, directx 9.0 high-level shading language is known as directx 9.0 gpus. the flexibility and power of directx 9 gpus can enhance high-definition, or hd, digital video, image processing and editing for digital photographs, as well as bring a cinematic look to computer graphics. technology and market leadership in this generation of gpus continues to be a key element of our corporate strategy. the successful production launch of our geforce 6800 and 6600 gpu series in fiscal 2005 led to our increase in market share from 21% to 67% of the performance directx 9.0-compatible graphics controller segment, according to the mercury research fourth quarter 2003 and 2004 pc graphics reports, respectively. in fiscal 2006, our strategy was to extend our architectural and technology advantage by leading the industry with our second-generation gpu to support directx 9 shader model 3.0 - the geforce 7800 gpu. by successfully extending our leadership position in the performance segment with the production release of the geforce 7800 in june 2005, we grew our market share from 67% to 79%, according to the mercury research fourth quarter 2004 and 2005 pc graphics reports, respectively. in january 2006, we launched and initiated sales of the geforce 7300 gpu, our first mainstream version of the geforce 7 series. the geforce 6 and 7 series desktop and notebook gpus are designed to be compatible with microsoft next generation operating system, microsoft windows vista, or vista, which is scheduled to be released in the second half of calendar 2006. vista is expected to mark a dramatic improvement in the way the windows operating system takes advantage of the pc gpu to provide a positive user experience. the nvidia quadro brand has become the benchmark of performance and compatibility for the professional industry. during fiscal 2006, the growth in our quadro professional workstation products was a reflection of the digital revolution sweeping nearly every industry, from industrial design, to industrial styling, to film, to hd broadcast, to medical imaging and many more. in the future, we expect the growth of our professional workstation products to be influenced by the demand for hd content creation, hd video editing and hd broadcast. 2 table of contents mcp business the nvidia nforce family of products represents our mcps for advanced micro devices, inc., or amd, and intel corporation, or intel,-based desktop, notebook, professional workstations and servers. our strategy for mcps aligns with what we anticipate will drive growth such as multi-core, ever-increasing-speed networking and storage technologies, and integration of complex features such as virtualization, security processing, network processing and more. the in-stat trendy chipset for the x86 processor report projects strong growth for pc chipsets through the end of this decade: from $7.6 billion in 2006 to over $10 billion in 2009. in september 2005, we introduced our first integrated graphics core logic solutions in more than two years, the geforce 6100 series gpu and nvidia nforce 400 series mcp. we offer the industry first and only integrated core logic to feature directx 9.0 and shader model 3.0 technology. we also offer purevideo technology, a hd video processor designed to deliver a home theater-quality movie watching experience on pcs and media centers. nvidia is now the third largest core logic supplier in the world, according to the mercury research fourth quarter 2005 pc graphics report. we are the largest supplier of amd 64 chipsets with 38% segment share. nvidia nforce mcp unit shipments for amd64-based cpus increased over 510% year-over year, based on the mercury research fourth quarter 2005 pc processor forecast report. handheld gpu business our strategy in our handheld gpu business is to lead innovation and capitalize on the emergence of the cellular phone as a versatile consumer lifestyle device. the hallmark of every device in the nvidia goforce product family is to provide a high-performance, visually rich multimedia experience on cellular phones and handheld devices. these products deliver an advanced visual experience by accelerating graphics and video applications, and supporting the most demanded features and capabilities. goforce handheld gpus implement innovative design techniques, both inside the chips and at the system level, which result in high performance and long battery life. these technologies enhance visual display capabilities, improve connectivity, and minimize chip and system-level power consumption. goforce products can be found in advanced multimedia cellular phones, pdas, and other handheld devices. consumer electronics business our consumer electronics business is composed of our contractual arrangements with sce to jointly develop a custom gpu incorporating our next-generation geforce gpu and sce system solutions in sce playstation3, sales of our xbox-related products, revenue from our license agreement with microsoft relating to the successor product to their initial xbox gaming console, the xbox360, and related devices, and digital media processor products. during the first quarter of fiscal 2006, microsoft indicated that it would not order any more xbox-related products from us after our second fiscal quarter. as a result, the second quarter of fiscal 2006 was the last quarter during which we recognized revenue from the sale of our xbox-related products to microsoft. our products we have four major product groups: gpus, mcps, handheld gpus, and consumer electronics. each of our product lines is designed to provide the advanced processing of a combination of graphics, hd video, audio, communications, network security and storage. our products are designed to support and deliver the maximum performance for the most current standards as determined by each industry segment, and to provide a comprehensive set of features that enhance the overall operation and compatibility of each platform they support. gpus. our gpu products support desktop pcs, notebook pcs and professional workstations. we have three major families of gpus: geforce, go and nvidia quadro. geforce . the geforce family represents our desktop gpus and includes the geforce7, geforce 6, geforce fx and geforce4 families. in march 2005, we introduced two new geforce 6 gpus: a 512mb version of the geforce 6800 ultra designed for the enthusiast segment, and a new lower-cost agp version of the geforce 6200 gpu, designed to bring directx 9.0 shader model 3.0 technology to the mainstream segment. our most advanced gpu family is the 3 table of contents geforce 7 series. in june 2005, we launched and shipped our second generation shader model 3.0 gpu, the geforce 7800 gtx, which is designed to address the high-end enthusiast desktop pc segment. in august 2005, we launched and shipped our second geforce 7 gpu, the geforce 7800 gt, which is designed to address the high-end performance desktop pc segment. in november 2005, we introduced and shipped the geforce 7800 gtx 512 gpu, which contains over 302 million transistors and is the industry only mainstream gpu to incorporate 64-bit high dynamic range, or hdr. the geforce 7800 class of gpus is designed for the enthusiast consumer segment. in november 2005, we introduced the geforce 6800 gs gpu, which is designed for the mainstream segment. in january 2006, we launched and shipped the geforce 7300 gs and geforce 7300 le gpus, our first mainstream versions of the geforce 7 series. the geforce 6600 and geforce 6200, the geforce fx 5200 and geforce4 currently deliver a balance of performance and features for the mainstream desktop pc segments. geforce go and nvidia quadro go. the geforce go and nvidia quadro go families represent our notebook gpus and include the geforce 7 go, geforce 6 go, geforce fx go, geforce4 go, and nvidia quadrofx go gpus. these gpus are designed to deliver desktop graphics performance and features for multiple notebook configurations from desktop replacements, multimedia notebooks and thin-and-lights to notebook workstations. the geforce go products are designed to serve the needs of both professional and consumer users. the nvidia quadro go products are designed to serve the needs of workstation professionals in the area of product design and digital content creation. in february 2005, we introduced the geforce go 6600 and geforce go 6800 ultra notebook gpus, both of which are designed specifically to deliver advanced multimedia functionality without sacrificing portability. in september 2005, we launched and shipped the new geforce go 7800 gtx, the flagship of the nvidia notebook gpu product line. in january 2006, we introduced a complete family of notebook gpus - the geforce go 7800, geforce go 7600 and geforce go 7400 - all based on our second generation shader model 3.0 architecture and designed to deliver cutting-edge 3d, hd home theatre-quality video and advanced power management to the notebook segment. nvidia quadro. the nvidia quadro branded products are designed to be robust, high-performance professional workstation solutions that are available for high-end, mid-range, entry-level and multi-display product lines. the nvidia quadro family, which consists of the nvidia quadro fx, nvidia quadro4 and the nvidia quadro nvs professional workstation processors are designed to meet the needs of a number of workstation applications such as industrial product design, digital content creation, non-linear video editing, scientific and medical visualization, general purpose business and financial trading. nvidia quadro products are fully certified by several software developers for professional workstation applications, and are designed to deliver the graphics performance and precision required by professional applications. in july 2005, we introduced two new nvidia quadro gpus, the nvidia quadro fx 4500 and the nvidia quadro fx 3450, which are designed for the high-end and mainstream professional segments, respectively. both products support our scalable link interface, or sli, technology. in october 2005, we announced that we are the exclusive provider of all graphics cards for the first peripheral component interconnect, or pci, express platform from apple computer, inc., or apple. in addition, the first ever apple power mac will incorporate our quadro professional-class gpu. mcps . our mcp product family, known as nvidia nforce, supports desktop pcs, notebook pcs, professional workstations and servers. nvidia nforce. the nvidia nforce family represents our mcps for amd and intel-based desktop pcs, notebook pcs, professional workstations and servers and includes the nvidia nforce2, nvidia nforce3, nvidia nforce4, nvidia nforce professional, geforce 6100 series gpus and nvidia nforce 400 series mcp motherboard solutions. we define an mcp as a single-chip or chipset that can off-load system functions, such as audio processing and network communications, and perform these operations independently from the host cpu. the nvidia nforce2 integrates a comprehensive set of multimedia capabilities, such as two-dimensional, or 2d, three-dimensional, or 3d, digital video disc, or dvd, hd television, or hdtv, dolby digital audio playback and fast broadband and networking communications. the nvidia nforce2 family is designed to be compatible with amd sempron microprocessors. the nvidia nforce3 and nvidia nforce4 families are single-chip mcps, designed to be compatible with amd64 and opteron 64-bit cpus. the nvidia nforce3 products are designed to complement 64-bit cpus 4 table of contents and deliver innovative technologies for networking, storage and system performance. nvidia nforce4 products are designed to provide a combination of sli technology and pci express support for intel and amd64 and opteron-based platforms. in april 2005, we announced the availability of our nvidia nforce4 sli intel edition mcp for intel-based platforms. this line of core-logic solutions incorporates a host of new and innovative features that had never before been available on the intel platform and extended the nvidia nforce brand into new segments. in june 2005, we made our sli technology available to users in the mainstream segment with the release of our geforce 6600 gpu. in august 2005, we announced that the nvidia nforce4 sli x16 intel edition technology featured in the dell dimension xps 600 desktop pc was immediately available. in september 2005, we introduced our first motherboard graphics solutions in more than two years, the geforce 6100 series gpu and nvidia nforce 400 series mcp. we offer the industry first and only integrated core logic to feature directx 9.0 and shader model 3.0 technology. in january 2006, we announced two new mcps for the intel platform, the nvidia nforce4 sli xe and nvidia nforce4 ultra, both of which provide the system-builder and do-it-yourself communities with two new lower cost discrete motherboard solutions for intel pc platforms. handheld gpus . our handheld gpu product family, known as goforce, supports handheld personal digital assistants, or pdas, and multimedia cellular phones. goforce. the goforce family represents our handheld gpus for a wide range of multimedia cellular phones and handheld devices. the goforce 2100 and goforce 2150 gpus are two of the first handheld gpus to offer hardware acceleration engines for 2d graphics to manufacturers that support liquid crystal display, or lcd, screen resolutions up to 320 x 240 pixels. the goforce 3000 and goforce 4000 offer a host of advanced features for cellular phones and pdas, including support for up to 3-megapixel image capture, accelerated graphics for gaming, and motion joint photographic experts group, or jpeg, capture and playback. our goforce 4000, goforce 4500 and goforce 4800 handheld gpus are the first to provide programmable 3d shaders, along with high-quality multi-megapixel still image and video processing in a single-chip package. using dedicated hardware accelerator engines, the goforce family delivers high performance multimedia applications and drives high-resolution displays, while extending handheld battery life through a variety of unique power management techniques. in the third quarter of fiscal 2006, motorola inc. and sony ericsson mobile communications ab launched third generation, or 3g, models of their razr and walkman portable phones, respectively, that are both powered by our goforce gpus. consumer electronics. our consumer electronics product group is concentrated in products that support video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices. playstation3. in april 2005, we finalized our definitive agreement with sce to jointly develop a custom gpu incorporating our next-generation geforce gpu and sce system solutions in sce playstation3. in addition, we are licensing software development tools for creating shaders and advanced graphics capabilities to sce. we have successfully reached many development milestones and we believe that we are on target to achieve the goals set by sce under this agreement. xbox. our xbox platform processor supported microsoft initial xbox video game console. the xbox platform processor featured dual-processing architecture, which included our gpu designed specifically for the xbox, or xgpu, and our mcp to power the xbox graphics, audio and networking capabilities. we also have a license agreement with microsoft relating to the successor product to their initial xbox gaming console, the xbox360, and related devices. during the first quarter of fiscal 2006, microsoft indicated that it would not order any more xbox-related products from us after our second fiscal quarter. as a result, the second quarter of fiscal 2006 was the last quarter during which we recognized revenue from the sale of our xbox-related products to microsoft. our strategy we design our gpus, mcps and handheld gpus to enable our pc oems, odms, system builders, motherboard and add-in board manufacturers, and cellular phone and consumer electronics oems, to build award-winning products by delivering state-of-the-art features, performance, compatibility and power efficiency while maintaining competitive pricing and profitability. we believe that by developing 3d graphics, hd video and media communications solutions that provide superior performance and address the key requirements of each of the product segments we serve, we will accelerate the adoption of hd digital media platforms and devices throughout these segments. we combine scalable architectural technology with mass market economies-of-scale to deliver a complete family of products that spans professional workstations, to consumer pcs, to mulitmedia-rich cellular phones. 5 table of contents our objective is to be the leading supplier of performance gpus, mcps and handheld gpus. our current focus is on the desktop pc, professional workstation, notebook pc, servers, mulitmedia-rich cellular phones and video game console product lines, and we plan to expand into other product lines. our strategy to achieve this objective includes the following key elements: build award-winning, architecturally-compatible 3d graphics, hd video, media communications and low power product families for the pc, handheld and digital entertainment platforms . our strategy is to achieve market share leadership in these platforms by providing award-winning performance at every price point. by developing 3d graphics, hd video and media communications solutions that provide superior performance and address the key requirements of these platforms, we believe that we will accelerate the adoption of 3d graphics and rich digital media. target leading oems, odms and system builders . our strategy is to enable our leading pc, handheld and consumer electronics oems, odms and major system builder customers to differentiate their products in a highly competitive marketplace by using our digital media processors. we believe that design wins with these industry leaders provide market validation of our products, increase brand awareness and enhance our ability to penetrate additional leading customer accounts. in addition, we believe that close relationships with oems and odms will allow us to better anticipate and address customer needs with future generations of our products. sustain technology and product leadership in 3d graphics and hd video, and media communications and low power . we are focused on using our advanced engineering capabilities to accelerate the quality and performance of 3d graphics, hd video, media communications and low power processing in pcs and handheld devices. a fundamental aspect of our strategy is to actively recruit the best 3d graphics and hd video, networking and communications engineers in the industry, and we believe that we have assembled an exceptionally experienced and talented engineering team. our research and development strategy is to focus on concurrently developing multiple generations of gpus, mcps and handheld gpus using independent design teams. as we have in the past, we intend to use this strategy to achieve new levels of graphics, networking and communications features and performance and low power designs, enabling our customers to achieve award-winning performance in their products. increase market share . we believe that substantial market share will be important to achieving success. we intend to achieve a leading share of the market by devoting substantial resources to building award-winning families of products for a wide range of applications. use our expertise in digital multimedia . we believe the synergy created by the combination of 3d graphics, hd video and the internet will fundamentally change the way people work, learn, communicate and play. we believe that our expertise in hd graphics and system architecture positions us to help drive this transformation. we are using our expertise in the processing and transmission of high-bandwidth digital media to develop products designed to address the requirements of high-bandwidth concurrent multimedia. use our intellectual property and resources to enter into license and development contracts. during fiscal 2006, we entered into license arrangements that require significant customization of our intellectual property components and we anticipate that we will enter into additional agreements during fiscal 2007. for license arrangements that require significant customization of our intellectual property components, we generally recognize this license revenue using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting over the period that services are performed. for example, in april 2005, we finalized our definitive agreement with sce to jointly develop a custom gpu incorporating our next-generation geforce gpu and sce system solutions in sce playstation3. our collaboration with sce includes license fees and royalties for the playstation3 and all derivatives, including next-generation digital consumer electronics devices. in addition, we are licensing software development tools for creating shaders and advanced graphics capabilities to sce. 6 table of contents sales and marketing our worldwide sales and marketing strategy is a key part of our objective to become the leading supplier of performance gpus, mcps, and handheld gpus for pcs, handheld devices and consumer electronics platforms. our sales and marketing teams work closely with each industry respective oems, odms, system integrators, motherboard manufacturers, add-in board manufacturers and industry trendsetters, collectively our channel, to define product features, performance, price and timing of new products. members of our sales team have a high level of technical expertise and product and industry knowledge to support a competitive and complex design win process. we also employ a highly skilled team of application engineers to assist the channel in designing, testing and qualifying system designs that incorporate our products. we believe that the depth and quality of our design support are key to improving the channel time-to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction within the channel and fostering relationships that encourage customers to use the next generation of our products. in the gpu, mcp, and handheld gpu segments we serve, the sales process involves achieving key design wins with leading oems and major system integrators and supporting the product design into high volume production with key odms, motherboard manufacturers and add-in board manufacturers. these design wins in turn influence the retail and system integrator channel that is serviced by add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. our distribution strategy is to work with a number of leading independent contract equipment manufacturers, or cems, odms, motherboard manufacturers, add-in board manufacturers and distributors each of which has relationships with a broad range of major oems and/or strong brand name recognition in the retail channel. in the handheld gpu segments we serve, the sales process primarily involves achieving key design wins directly with the leading handheld oems and supporting the product design into high-volume production. currently, we sell a significant portion of our digital media processors directly to distributors, cems, odms, motherboard manufacturers and add-in board manufacturers, which then sell boards and systems with our products to leading oems, retail outlets and to a large number of system integrators. although a small number of our customers represent the majority of our revenue, their end customers include a large number of oems and system integrators throughout the world. as a result of our channel strategy, our sales are focused on a small number of customers. sales to edom technology co., ltd., or edom, accounted for 14% and sales to asustek computer inc., or asustek, accounted for 12% of our total revenue for fiscal 2006. edom is an independent distributor and asustek is a cem. to encourage software title developers and publishers to develop games optimized for platforms utilizing our products, we seek to establish and maintain strong relationships in the software development community. engineering and marketing personnel interact with and visit key software developers to promote and discuss our products, as well as to ascertain product requirements and solve technical problems. our developer program makes products available to developers prior to volume availability in order to encourage the development of software titles that are optimized for our products. backlog our sales are primarily made pursuant to standard purchase orders. the quantity of products purchased by our customers as well as shipment schedules are subject to revisions that reflect changes in both the customers requirements and in manufacturing availability. the semiconductor industry is characterized by short lead time orders and quick delivery schedules. in light of industry practice and experience, we believe that only a small portion of our backlog is non-cancelable and that the dollar amount associated with the non-cancelable portion is not significant. we do not believe that a backlog as of any particular date is indicative of future results. seasonality our industry is largely focused on the consumer products market. due to the seasonality in this market, we typically expect to see stronger revenue performance in the second half of the calendar year related to the back-to-school and holiday seasons. 7 table of contents manufacturing we do not directly manufacture semiconductor wafers used for our products. instead we utilize what is known as a fabless manufacturing strategy for all product-line operating segments whereby we employ world-class suppliers for all phases of the manufacturing process, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging. this strategy uses the expertise of industry-leading suppliers that are certified by the international organization for standardization, or iso, in such areas as fabrication, assembly, quality control and assurance, reliability and testing. in addition, this strategy allows us to avoid many of the significant costs and risks associated with owning and operating manufacturing operations. our suppliers are also responsible for procurement of most of the raw materials used in the production of our products. as a result, we can focus our resources on product design, additional quality assurance, marketing and customer support. we utilize industry-leading suppliers, such as chartered semiconductor manufacturing, or chartered, semiconductor manufacturing international corporation, or smic, taiwan semiconductor manufacturing corporation, or tsmc, and united microelectronics corporation, or umc, to produce our semiconductor wafers. we then utilize independent subcontractors, such as advanced semiconductor engineering, or ase, amkor technology, king yuan electronics co., ltd, or kyec, siliconware precision industries company ltd., or spil, and stats chippac incorporated to perform assembly, testing and packaging of most of our products. we typically receive semiconductor products from our subcontractors, perform incoming quality assurance and then ship them to cems, distributors, motherboard and add-in board manufacturer customers from our third-party warehouse in hong kong. generally, these manufacturers assemble and test the boards based on our design kit and test specifications, and then ship the products to retailers, system integrators or oems as motherboard and add-in board solutions. inventory and working capital our management focuses considerable attention on managing our inventories and other working-capital-related items. we manage inventories by communicating with our customers and then using our industry experience to forecast demand on a product-by-product basis. we then place manufacturing orders for our products that are based on this forecasted demand. the quantity of products actually purchased by our customers as well as shipment schedules are subject to revisions that reflect changes in both the customers requirements and in manufacturing availability. we generally maintain substantial inventories of our products because the semiconductor industry is characterized by short lead time orders and quick delivery schedules. research and development we believe that the continued introduction of new and enhanced products designed to deliver leading 3d graphics, hd video, audio, low power communications, storage, and secure networking performance and features is essential to our future success. our research and development strategy is to focus on concurrently developing multiple generations of gpus, mcps and handheld gpus using independent design teams. our research and development efforts are performed within specialized groups consisting of software engineering, hardware engineering, very large scale integration design engineering, process engineering, architecture and algorithms. these groups act as a pipeline designed to allow the efficient simultaneous development of multiple generations of products. a critical component of our product development effort is our partnerships with leaders in the computer aided design, or cad, industry. we invest significant resources in the development of relationships with industry leaders, including cadence design systems, inc., and synopsys, inc., often assisting these companies in the product definition of their new products. we believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3d graphics market and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. we believe this approach assists us in meeting the new design schedules of pc oem and other manufacturers. 8 table of contents we have substantially increased our engineering and technical resources from fiscal 2005, and have 1,654 full-time employees engaged in research and development as of january 29, 2006, compared to 1,231 employees as of january 30, 2005. during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, we incurred research and development expenditures of $357.1 million, $348.2 million and $292.2 million, respectively. competition the market for gpus, mcps and handheld gpus is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. we believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, backward-forward software support, conformity to industry standard application programming interfaces, or apis, manufacturing capabilities, price of processors and total system costs of add-in boards or motherboards. we believe that our ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers will demand and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of quality. we expect competition to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products. in addition, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and acquire significant market share. an additional significant source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide gpu, mcp, and handheld gpu solutions. some of our competitors may have greater marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do and may be more able to adapt to customer or technological changes. our current competitors include the following: suppliers of discrete mcps that incorporate a combination of networking, audio, communications and input/output, or i/o, functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ati technologies, inc., or ati, broadcom corporation, or broadcom, and intel; suppliers of gpus, including mcps that incorporate 3d graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ati, intel, matrox electronics systems ltd., silicon integrated systems, inc., via technologies, inc., and xgi technology inc.; and suppliers of gpus or gpu intellectual property for handheld and embedded devices that incorporate advanced graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ati, bitboys, broadcom, fujitsu limited, imagination technologies ltd., nec corporation, qualcomm incorporated, renesas technology corp., seiko-epson, texas instruments incorporated, and toshiba america, inc. we expect substantial competition from intel publicized focus on moving to selling platform solutions dominated by intel products, such as when intel achieved success with its centrino platform solution. in addition to its current centrino notebook platform initiative, and its announced upcoming desktop initiative branded as viiv, we expect that intel is now focused on developing and selling platform solutions for all segments including professional workstations and servers. if intel continues to pursue these initiatives, we may not be able to successfully compete in these segments. if and to the extent we offer products outside of the consumer and enterprise pc, notebook, workstation, pda, cellular phone, and video game console markets, we may face competition from some of our existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. we cannot accurately predict if we will compete successfully in any new markets we may enter. if we are unable to compete in our current and any new markets, our financial results will suffer. patents and proprietary rights we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. our issued patents have expiration dates from september 4, 2007 to september 2, 2024. we have numerous patents issued and pending in the united states and in foreign countries. our patents and pending patent 9 table of contents applications relate to technology used by us in connection with our products, including our digital media processors. we also rely on international treaties and organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as: the commercial significance of our operations and our competitors operations in particular countries and regions; the location in which our products are manufactured; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and the degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. in addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. the enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. we have licensed technology from third parties for incorporation in our digital media processors, and expect to continue to enter into license agreements for future products. these licenses may result in royalty payments to third parties, the cross licensing of technology by us or payment of other consideration. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could suffer. employees as of january 29, 2006 we had 2,737 employees, 1,654 of whom were engaged in research and development and 1,083 of whom were engaged in sales, marketing, operations and administrative positions. none of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we believe our relationships with our employees are good. financial information by business segment and geographic data our chief executive officer, who is considered to be our chief operating decision maker, or codm, reviews financial information presented on an operating segment basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance. during the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we reorganized our operating segments to bring all major product groups in line with our strategy to position ourselves as the worldwide leader in programmable graphics processor technologies. we now report financial information for four product-line operating segments to our codm: the gpu business is composed of products that support desktop pcs, notebook pcs and professional workstations; the mcp business is composed of nvidia nforce products that operate as a single-chip or chipset that can off-load system functions, such as audio processing and network communications, and perform these operations independently from the host cpu; our handheld gpu business is composed of products that support handheld personal digital assistants, cellular phones and other handheld devices; and our consumer electronics business is concentrated in products that support video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices and is composed of revenue from our contractual arrangements with sce to jointly develop a custom gpu incorporating our next-generation geforce gpu and sce system solutions in sce playstation3, revenue from sales of our xbox-related products, revenue from our license agreement with microsoft relating to the successor product to their initial xbox gaming console, the xbox360, and related devices, and digital media processor products. in addition to these operating segments, we have the all other category that includes human resources, legal, finance, general administration and corporate marketing expenses, which total $123.9 million and $118.0 million for fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively, that we do not allocate to our other operating segments. all other also includes the results of operations of other miscellaneous operating segments that are neither individually reportable, nor aggregated with another operating segment. revenue in the all other category is primarily derived from sales of memory. all prior period amounts have been restated to reflect our new reporting structure. our codm does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis. operating segments do not record intersegment revenue, and, accordingly, there is none to be reported. the accounting policies for segment reporting are the same as for nvidia as a whole. the information included in note 16 of the notes to consolidated financial statements is hereby incorporated by reference. 10 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers, their ages and their positions as of january 29, 2006: name age position jen-hsun huang 42 president, chief executive officer and director marvin d. burkett 63 chief financial officer ajay k. puri 51 senior vice president, worldwide sales jeffrey d. fisher 47 senior vice president, gpu business unit david m. shannon 50 senior vice president, general counsel and secretary daniel f. vivoli 45 senior vice president, marketing jen-hsun huang co-founded nvidia in april 1993 and has served as its president, chief executive officer and a member of the board of directors since its inception. from 1985 to 1993, mr. huang was employed at lsi logic corporation, a computer chip manufacturer, where he held a variety of positions, most recently as director of coreware, the business unit responsible for lsi system-on-a-chip strategy. from 1983 to 1985, mr. huang was a microprocessor designer for advanced micro devices, a semiconductor company. mr. huang holds a b.s.e.e. degree from oregon state university and an m.s.e.e. degree from stanford university. marvin d. burkett joined nvidia as chief financial officer in september 2002. from february 2000 until joining nvidia, mr. burkett was a financial consultant and served as chief financial officer of arcot systems, a security software company. from 1998 to 1999, mr. burkett was the executive vice president and chief financial officer of packard bell nec. mr. burkett also previously spent 26 years at advanced micro devices, inc., or amd, where he held a variety of positions including chief financial officer, senior vice president and corporate controller. mr. burkett holds b.s. and m.b.a. degrees from the university of arizona. ajay k. puri joined nvidia in december 2005 as senior vice president, worldwide sales. prior to nvidia, he held positions in sales, marketing, and general management over a 22-year career at sun microsystems, inc. mr. puri previously held marketing, management consulting, and product development positions at hewlett-packard development company, l.p., booz allen hamilton inc., and texas instruments incorporated. mr. puri holds an m.b.a. from harvard university, an m.s.e.e. degree from caltech, and a b.s.e.e. degree from the university of minnesota. jeffrey d. fisher joined in july 1994 and served as the executive vice president, worldwide sales of nvidia until december 2005, when he became senior vice president of the gpu business unit. he has over 20 years of sales and marketing experience in the semiconductor industry. mr. fisher holds a b.s.e.e. degree from purdue university and an m.b.a. degree from santa clara university. david m. shannon joined nvidia in august 2002 as vice president and general counsel. mr. shannon became secretary of nvidia in april 2005 and a senior vice president in december 2005. from 1993 to 2002, mr. shannon held various counsel positions at intel, including the most recent position of vice president and assistant general counsel. mr. shannon also practiced for eight years in the law firm of gibson dunn and crutcher, focusing on complex commercial and high-technology related litigation. mr. shannon holds b.a. and j.d. degrees from pepperdine university. daniel f. vivoli became the senior vice president, marketing in december 2005. mr. vivoli served as executive vice president of marketing from december 1997 to december 2005. from 1988 to december 1997, mr. vivoli held management positions, most recently as vice president of product marketing, at silicon graphics, inc., a computing technology company. from 1983 to 1988, mr. vivoli held various marketing positions at hewlett-packard company. mr. vivoli holds a b.s.e.e. degree from the university of illinois at champaign-urbana. 11 table of contents available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) of the exchange act are available free of charge on or through our internet website, http://www.nvidia.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission. our website and the information contained therein as connected thereto is not intended to be incorporated into the annual report on form 10-k/a. as discussed in the explanatory note we concluded that we need to amend our original filing to restate our consolidated financial statements for the years ended january 29, 2006, january 30, 2005, and january 25, 2004 and the related disclosures. this form 10-k/a also includes the restatement of selected consolidated financial data as of and for the years ended january 29, 2006, january 30, 2005, january 25, 2004, january 26, 2003, and january 27, 2002, and the unaudited quarterly financial data for each of the quarters in the years ended january 29, 2006 and january 30, 2005. we also concluded that we need to amend the quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended april 30, 2006, originally filed on may 31, 2006, to restate our condensed consolidated financial statements for the quarters ended april 30, 2006 and may 1, 2005 and the related disclosures. we will also restate the july 31, 2005 financial statements included in the quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended july 30, 2006. we will restate the october 30, 2005 financial statements with the filing of our october 29, 2006 form 10-q. however, we have included in exhibit 99.1 a restated balance sheet as of october 31, 2005, restated statements of income for the three and nine month periods ended october 31, 2005, and a restated statement of cash flows for the nine month period ended october 31, 2005. we have not amended and we do not intend to amend any of our other previously filed annual reports on form 10-k or quarterly reports on form 10-q for the periods affected by the restatement or adjustments other than the amended quarterly report on form 10-q/a for the quarter ended april 30, 2006 and this form 10-k/a for the year ended january 30, 2006. item 1a. risk factors in evaluating nvidia and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k/a. any one of the following risks could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause our stock price to decline. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. risks related to our operations the matters relating to the audit committee of the board of directors review of our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements may result in future litigation, which could harm our financial results. on august 10, 2006, nvidia announced that the audit committee of the board of directors, with the assistance of outside legal counsel, was conducting a review of our stock option practices covering the time from nvidia initial public offering in 1999 (our fiscal year 2000) through june 2006. as described in item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, the audit committee has reached the conclusion that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock option grants made in certain prior periods. as a result, nvidia has recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, related to stock option grants. the audit committee review of nvidia stock option practices identified a number of occasions on which the measurement date used for financial accounting and reporting purposes for stock options granted to some of our employees was different from the actual grant date. to correct these accounting errors, we are amending our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended january 30, 2006 and our quarterly report on form 10-q for the three months ended april 30, 2006, to restate the consolidated financial statements contained in those reports. the audit committee independent review of our historical stock option granting practices has required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, has diverted our management attention from our business, and could in the future harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our historical stock option granting practices and the restatement of our prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation and regulatory proceedings. as described in part ii, item 3, legal proceedings , several derivative complaints have been filed against our directors and certain of our executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants. we cannot assure you that these or future similar complaints, or any future litigation or regulatory action will result in the same conclusions reached by the audit committee. the conduct and resolution of these matters or other litigation will be time consuming, expensive and may distract management from the conduct of our business. 12 table of contents we voluntarily contacted the sec regarding the audit committee review and, as of the date of the filing of this annual report on form 10-k/a, the sec is continuing the inquiry of our historical stock option grant practices it began in late august 2006. in october 2006, we met with the sec and provided it with a review of the status of the audit committee review and in november 2006 we voluntarily provided the sec with further documents. we plan to continue to cooperate with the sec in its inquiry. while we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in concluding the correct measurement dates for option grants, the sec may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past option grant measurement date errors, and there is a risk that its inquiry could lead to circumstances in which we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the sec, or otherwise take other actions not currently contemplated. any such circumstance could also lead to future delays in filing our subsequent sec reports and delisting of our common stock from the nasdaq global select market. furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. please see note 2, restatement of consolidated financial statements, audit committee and company findings of the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information. because our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, our failure to forecast any change in such factors could adversely affect our gross margin. we continue to pursue measures in an effort to improve our gross margin. our gross margin for any period depends on a number of factors, including the mix of our products sold, average selling prices, introduction of new products, sales discounts, unexpected pricing actions by our competitors, the cost of product components, and the yield of wafers produced by the foundries that manufacture our products. if we incorrectly forecast the impact of the aforementioned factors on our business, we may be unable to take action in time to counteract any negative impact on our gross margin. in addition, if we are unable to meet our gross margin target for any period or the target set by analysts, the trading price of our common stock may decline. our failure to estimate customer demand properly may result in excess or obsolete inventory or, conversely, may result in inadequate inventory levels, either of which could adversely affect our financial results. our inventory purchases are based upon future demand forecasts, which may not accurately predict the quantity or type of our products that our customers will want in the future. in forecasting demand, we must make multiple assumptions any of which may prove to be incorrect. situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of the value of our inventory and/or a forced reduction in average selling prices, and where our gross margin could be adversely affected include: if there were a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; if there were a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements; if we fail to estimate customer demand properly for our older products as our newer products are introduced; or if our competition were to take unexpected competitive pricing actions. conversely, if we underestimate our customers demand for either our older or newer products, we may have inadequate manufacturing capability and may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill our customers orders on a timely basis, which could affect our revenue results. even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost effective manner. inability to fill our customers' orders on a timely basis could damage our customer relationships, result in lost revenue, cause a loss in market share or damage our reputation. 13 table of contents because we order materials in advance of anticipated customer demand our ability to reduce our inventory purchase commitments quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls is limited. substantially all of our sales are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term agreements. as a result, we may commit resources to the production of products without having received advance purchase commitments from customers. any inability to sell products to which we have devoted significant resources could harm our business. in addition, cancellation or deferral of product orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margin and restrict our ability to fund operations. we may build inventories during periods of anticipated growth. additionally, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter and, therefore, we recognize a substantial portion of our revenue in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to any revenue shortfalls. we could be subject to excess or obsolete inventories and be required to take corresponding inventory write-downs if growth slows or if we incorrectly forecast product demand, which could negatively impact our gross margin and financial results. we are dependent on key personnel and the loss of these employees could negatively impact our business. our performance is substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. none of our executive officers or employees is bound by an employment agreement, meaning our relationships with our executive officers and employees are at will. we do not have key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. the loss of the services of any of our executive officers, technical personnel or other key employees, particularly jen-hsun huang, our president and chief executive officer, would harm our business. our success will depend on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified technical and managerial personnel. our failure to attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel would harm our business. the integration of new executives or personnel could disrupt our ongoing operations. failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for existing and/or new products would reduce our gross margin and could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. semiconductor manufacturing yields are a function both of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the manufacturer. since low yields may result from either design or process technology failures, yield problems may not be effectively determined or resolved until an actual product exists that can be analyzed and tested to identify process sensitivities relating to the design rules that are used. as a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the production process. resolution of yield problems requires cooperation by and communication between us and the manufacturer. because of our potentially limited access to wafer fabrication capacity from our manufacturers, any decrease in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our per unit costs and force us to allocate our available product supply among our customers. this could potentially harm customer relationships, our reputation, our revenue and our gross profit. our wafer manufacturers may be unable to achieve or maintain acceptable manufacturing yields in the future. our inability to achieve planned yields from our wafer manufacturers would reduce our gross margin. we also face the risk of product recalls or product returns resulting from design or manufacturing defects that are not discovered during the manufacturing and testing process. a significant number of product returns due to a defect or recall could damage our reputation and result in our customers working with our competitors. to stay competitive, we may have to invest more resources in research and development than anticipated, which could increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating results. if new competitors, technological advances by existing competitors or other competitive factors require us to invest significantly greater resources than anticipated in research and development efforts, our operating expenses would increase. we have substantially increased our engineering and technical resources and have 1,654 full-time employees engaged in research and development as of january 29, 2006, 1,231 employees as of january 30, 2005 and 1,057 employees as of january 25, 2004. research and development expenditures were $357.1 million, $348.2 million, and $292.2 million for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. if we are required to invest significantly greater 14 table of contents resources than anticipated in research and development efforts without an increase in revenue, our operating results would decline. in order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development, and we expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future due to the increased complexity and the greater number of products under development as well as hiring additional employees. research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenue. our operating expenses are relatively fixed and we may have limited ability to reduce operating expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. our operating expenses, which are comprised of research and development expenses and sales, general and administrative expenses, represented 24.1% and 27.5% of our total revenue during fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. operating expenses included litigation settlement costs of $14.2 million in fiscal 2006. since we often recognize a substantial portion of our revenue in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to adjust our operating expenses in a timely manner in response to any revenue shortfalls. if we are unable to reduce operating expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls, our financial results would be negatively impacted. failure to transition to new manufacturing process technologies could adversely affect our operating results and gross margin. our strategy is to utilize the most advanced manufacturing process technology appropriate for our products and available from commercial third-party foundries. use of advanced processes may have greater risk of initial yield problems and higher product cost. manufacturing process technologies are subject to rapid change and require significant expenditures for research and development. we continuously evaluate the benefits of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies in order to improve performance and reduce costs. we currently use 0.15 micron, 0.14 micron, 0.13 micron, 0.11 micron, and 90 nanometer process technologies for our families of gpus, mcps and handheld gpus. we have experienced difficulty in migrating to new manufacturing processes in the past and, consequently, have suffered reduced yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expense levels. we may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. moreover, we are dependent on our relationships with our third-party manufacturers to migrate to smaller geometry processes successfully. the inability by us or our third-party manufacturers to effectively and efficiently transition to new manufacturing process technologies may adversely affect our operating results and our gross margin. our operating results are unpredictable and may fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the trading price of our stock could decline. many of our revenue components fluctuate and are difficult to predict, and our operating expenses are largely independent of revenue in any particular period. it is, therefore, difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue and profits or losses. as a result, it is possible that in some quarters our operating results could be below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps substantially. we believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may continue to be affected by a variety of factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations. any one or more of the factors discussed in this annual report on form 10-k/a or other factors could prevent us from achieving our expected future revenue or net income. accordingly, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. in addition, the results of any quarterly or full fiscal year period are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for a subsequent quarter or a full fiscal year. 15 table of contents risks related to our products if we are unable to achieve design wins, our products may not be adopted by our target markets and customers either of which could negatively impact our financial results. the future success of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to develop new competitive products for our target markets and customers. we believe achieving design wins, which entails having our existing and future products chosen for hardware components or subassemblies designed by pc oems, odms, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers, will aid our future success. our oem, odm, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers customers typically introduce new system configurations as often as twice per year, typically based on spring and fall design cycles. accordingly, when our customers are making their design decisions, our existing products must have competitive performance levels or we must timely introduce new products in order to be included in new system configurations. this requires that we do the following: anticipate the features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand; incorporate those features and functionalities into products that meet the exacting design requirements of oems, odms, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers; price our products competitively; and introduce products to the market within the limited design cycle for oems, odms, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers. if oems, odms, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers do not include our products in their systems, they will typically not use our products in their design systems until at least the next design configuration. therefore, we endeavor to develop close relationships with our oems and odms in an attempt to allow us to better anticipate and address customer needs in new products so that our products will achieve design wins. our ability to achieve design wins also depends in part on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards. unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers, including amd, intel and microsoft. such changes would require us to invest significant time and resources to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards for a significant period of time, our ability to achieve design wins could suffer. if we are unable to achieve new design wins for existing or new customers, we may lose market share and our operating results would be negatively impacted. achievement of design wins may not result in the success of our products and could result in a loss of market share. the process of being qualified for inclusion in an oem product can be lengthy and could cause us to miss a cycle in the demand of end users for a particular product feature, which also could result in a loss of market share and harm our business. even if we do have design wins for oem and odm products, we may not be able to successfully develop or introduce new products in sufficient volumes within the appropriate time to meet both the oem, odm, add-in board and motherboard manufacturers design cycles as well as other market demand. additionally, even if we achieve a significant number of design wins, there can be no assurance that our oem and odm customers will actually take the design to production or that the design will be commercially successful. furthermore, there may be changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our customers products that could negatively impact the success of our products. any of these factors could result in a loss of market share and could negatively impact our financial results. our business results could be adversely affected if our product development efforts are unsuccessful. we have in the past experienced delays in the development of some new products. any delay in the future or failure of our gpus or other processors to meet or exceed specifications of competitive products could materially harm our business. the success of our new product introductions will depend on many factors, including the following: proper new product definition; 16 table of contents timely completion and introduction of new product designs; the ability of third-party manufacturers to effectively manufacture our new products in a timely manner; dependence on third-party subcontractors for assembly, testing and packaging of our products and in meeting product delivery schedules and maintaining product quality; the quality of any new products; differentiation of new products from those of our competitors; market acceptance of our products and our customers' products; and availability of adequate quantity and configurations of various types of memory products. a critical component of our product development effort is our partnerships with leaders in the computer aided design, or cad, industry. we have invested significant resources to develop relationships with industry leaders, including cadence design systems, inc. and synopsys, inc., often assisting these companies in the product definition of their new products. we believe that forming these relationships and utilizing next-generation development tools to design, simulate and verify our products will help us remain at the forefront of the 3d graphics, communications and networking segments and develop products that utilize leading-edge technology on a rapid basis. we believe this approach assists us in meeting the new design schedules of pc oems and other manufacturers. if these relationships are not successful, we may not be able to develop new products in a timely manner, which could result in a loss of market share, a decrease in revenue and a negative impact on our operating results. our failure to successfully develop, introduce or achieve market acceptance for new processors would harm our business. our failure to identify new market or product opportunities or develop new products could harm our business. as our gpus or other processors develop and competition increases, we anticipate that product life cycles at the high end will remain short and average selling prices will decline. in particular, we expect average selling prices and gross margins for our processors to decline as each product matures and as unit volume increases. as a result, we will need to introduce new products and enhancements to existing products to maintain or improve overall average selling prices and gross margins. in order for our processors to achieve high volumes, leading pc oems, odms, and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers must select our processor for design into their products, and then successfully complete the designs of their products and sell them. we may be unable to successfully identify new product opportunities or to develop and bring to market new products in a timely fashion. in addition, we cannot guarantee that new products we develop will be selected for design into pc oems , odms , and add-in board and motherboard manufacturers products, that any new designs will be successfully completed or that any new products will be sold. as the complexity of our products and the manufacturing process for our products increases, there is an increasing risk that we will experience problems with the performance of our products and that there will be delays in the development, introduction or volume shipment of our products. we may experience difficulties related to the production of current or future products or other factors that may delay the introduction or volume sale of new products we develop. in addition, we may be unable to successfully manage the production transition risks with respect to future products. failure to achieve any of the foregoing with respect to future products or product enhancements could result in rapidly declining average selling prices, reduced margins and reduced demand for products or loss of market share. in addition, technologies developed by others may render our processors non-competitive or obsolete or result in our holding excess inventory, any of which would harm our business. we could suffer a loss of market share if our products contain significant defects. products as complex as those we offer may contain defects or experience failures when introduced or when new versions or enhancements to existing products are released. we have in the past discovered defects and incompatibilities with customers hardware in some of our products and may experience delays or loss of revenue to correct any defects or incompatibilities in the future. errors in new products or releases after commencement of 17 table of contents commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. our products typically go through only one verification cycle prior to beginning volume production and distribution. as a result, our products may contain defects or flaws that are undetected prior to volume production and distribution. if these defects or flaws exist and are not detected prior to volume production and distribution, we may be required to reimburse customers for costs to repair or replace the affected products in the field. we may also be required to incur additional research and development costs to find and correct the defect, which could divert the attention of our management and engineers from the development of new products. these costs could be significant and could adversely affect our business and operating results. we may also suffer a loss of reputation and/or a loss in our market share, either of which could materially harm our financial results. risks related to our partners and customers there can be no assurance that the playstation3 will achieve long term commercial success. in april 2005, we finalized our definitive agreement with sce to jointly develop a custom gpu incorporating our next-generation geforce gpu and sce system solutions in sce playstation3. our collaboration with sce includes license fees and royalties for the playstation3 and all derivatives, including next-generation digital consumer electronics devices. in addition, we are licensing software development tools for creating shaders and advanced graphics capabilities to sce. during fiscal 2006, we recognized $49.0 million of revenue from our contractual arrangements with sce to jointly develop a custom gpu incorporating our next-generation geforce gpu and sce system solutions in sce playstation3. depending on the ultimate success of this next-generation platform, we expect to generate, starting in fiscal 2007, revenue ranging from $50 million to $100 million annually from license fees and royalties over the next five years, with the possibility of additional royalties for several years thereafter. there can be no assurance that the playstation3 will achieve long term commercial success, given the intense competition in the game console market. additionally, we do not have control over the launch date or pricing of the playstation3. as such, we do not have control over when we will receive royalties. if we do not receive royalties as we anticipate, our revenue and gross margin may be adversely affected. we may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. in the past we have acquired and invested in other businesses that offered products, services and technologies that we believed would help expand or enhance our products and services or help expand our distribution channels. we may enter into future acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, in order to complement or expand our current businesses or enter into a new business market. for example, in february 2006 we completed the acquisition of uli electronics, inc., or uli, a leading developer of core logic technology, for approximately $53 million paid in cash. if we do consider an acquisition, strategic alliance or joint venture, the negotiations could divert management attention as well as other resources. for any previous or future acquisition or investment, including uli, the following risks could impair our ability to grow our business and develop new products, and ultimately, could impair our ability to sell our products, which could negatively impact our growth or our financial results: difficulty in combining the technology, products, operations or workforce of the acquired business with our business; disruption of our ongoing businesses: difficulty in realizing the potential financial or strategic benefits of the transaction; diversion of management attention from our business; difficulty in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; disruption of or delays in ongoing research and development efforts; diversion of capital and other resources; assumption of liabilities; diversion of resources and unanticipated expenses resulting from litigation arising from potential or actual business acquisitions or investments; difficulties in entering into new markets in which we have limited or no experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger positions; and impairment of relationships with employees and customers, or the loss of any of our key employees or of our target key employees, as a result of the integration of new businesses and management personnel. 18 table of contents in addition, the consideration for any future acquisition could be paid in cash, shares of our common stock, the issuance of convertible debt securities or a combination of cash, convertible debt and common stock. if we pay all or a portion of the purchase price in cash, our cash reserves would be reduced. if the consideration is paid with shares of our common stock, or convertible debentures, the holdings of our existing stockholders would be diluted. we cannot forecast the number, timing or size of future acquisitions, or the effect that any such acquisitions might have on our operations or financial results. we sell our products to a small number of customers and our business could suffer by the loss of any of these customers. we have only a limited number of customers and our sales are highly concentrated. sales to our two largest customers accounted for approximately 26%, 31%, and 36% of our revenue during fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. during the first quarter of fiscal 2006, microsoft indicated that it would not order any more xbox-related products from us after our second fiscal quarter. as a result, the second quarter of fiscal 2006 was the last quarter during which we recognized revenue from the sale of our xbox-related products to microsoft. although a small number of our other customers represents the majority of our revenue, their end customers include a large number of oems and system integrators throughout the world who, in many cases, specify the graphics supplier. our sales process involves achieving key design wins with leading pc oems and major system builders and supporting the product design into high volume production with key cems, odms, motherboard and add-in board manufacturers. these design wins in turn influence the retail and system builder channel that is serviced by cems, odms, motherboard and add-in board manufacturers. our distribution strategy is to work with a small number of leading independent cems, odms, motherboard manufacturers, add-in board manufacturers and distributors, each of which has relationships with a broad range of system builders and leading pc oems. if we were to lose sales to our pc oems, cems, odms, motherboard and add-in board manufacturers and were unable to replace the lost sales with sales to different customers, or if they were to significantly reduce the number of products they order from us, our revenue may not reach or exceed the expected level in any period, which could harm our financial condition and our results of operations. we depend on foundries and independent contractors to manufacture our products and these third parties may not be able to satisfy our manufacturing requirements, which would harm our business. we do not manufacture the semiconductor wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. our products require wafers manufactured with state-of-the-art fabrication equipment and techniques. we utilize industry-leading suppliers, such as chartered, smic, tsmc, and umc to produce our semiconductor wafers and utilize independent subcontractors to perform assembly, testing and packaging. we depend on these suppliers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields, and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis at acceptable prices. these manufacturers may be unable to meet our near-term or long-term manufacturing or pricing requirements. we obtain manufacturing services on a purchase order basis. the foundries we use have no obligation to provide us with any specified minimum quantities of product. suppliers, such as chartered, smic, tsmc, and umc, fabricate wafers for other companies, including some of our competitors, and could choose to prioritize capacity for other users, reduce or eliminate deliveries to us, or increase the prices that they charge us on short notice. if we are unable to meet customer demand due to reduced or eliminated deliveries, we could lose sales to customers, which would negatively impact our revenue and our reputation. because the lead-time needed to establish a strategic relationship with a new manufacturing partner could be several quarters, there is no readily available alternative source of supply for any specific product. in addition, the time and effort to qualify a new foundry could result in additional expense, diversion of resources or lost sales any of which would negatively impact our financial results. we believe that long-term market acceptance for our products will depend on reliable relationships with third-party manufacturers we may use to ensure adequate product supply and competitive pricing so that we are able to respond to customer demand. 19 table of contents we are dependent on third parties located outside of the united states for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, which reduces our control over the delivery and quantity of our products. our processors are assembled and tested by independent subcontractors, such as ase, amkor technology inc., kyec, spil, and stats chippac incorporated, all of which are located outside of the united states. we do not have long-term agreements with any of these subcontractors. as a result of our dependence on third-party subcontractors for assembly, testing and packaging of our products, we do not directly control product delivery schedules or product quality. demand for qualified independent subcontractors to assemble and test products is high. if demand for these subcontractors exceeds the number of qualified subcontractors, we may experience capacity constraints, which could result in product shortages, a decrease in the quality of our products or an increase in product cost. any of our subcontractors may decide to prioritize the orders of one of our competitors over our orders. any product shortages, quality assurance problems or political instability outside of the united states could increase the costs of manufacture, assembly or testing of our products, which could cause our gross margin to decline. due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience significant delays in the shipment of our products if we are required to find alternative third parties to assemble or test our products or components. any such delays could result in a loss of reputation or a decrease in sales to our customers. we rely on third-party vendors to supply software development tools to us for the development of our new products and we may be unable to obtain the tools necessary to develop these products. in the design and development of new products and product enhancements, we rely on third-party software development tools. while we currently are not dependent on any one vendor for the supply of these tools, some or all of these tools may not be readily available in the future. for example, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products in the past as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. the design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from processors in the future may exceed the capabilities of the software development tools that are available to us. if the software development tools we use become unavailable or fail to produce designs that meet consumer demands, our business could suffer. difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could result in significant charges against income and the deferral of revenue recognition from sales to affected customers, which could harm our operating results and financial condition. our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers' businesses and to downturns in the economy and the industry. in addition, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable or the loss of any significant customer could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we continue to work directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts receivable from them. we maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. this allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. in addition, we purchase credit insurance on selected customers accounts receivable balances in an effort to further mitigate our exposure for such losses. if the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers and we may be required to pay higher credit insurance premiums, which could adversely affect our operating results. we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions in the future, which could negatively impact our financial results. 20 table of contents risks related to our competition the market for gpu, mcp, and handheld gpus is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete. the market for gpus, mcps and handheld gpus is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and declining average selling prices. we believe that the principal competitive factors in this market are performance, breadth of product offerings, access to customers and distribution channels, backward-forward software support, conformity to industry standard apis, manufacturing capabilities, price of processors and total system costs of add-in boards and motherboards. we believe that our ability to remain competitive will depend on how well we are able to anticipate the features and functions that customers will demand and whether we are able to deliver consistent volumes of our products at acceptable levels of quality. we expect competition to increase both from existing competitors and new market entrants with products that may be less costly than ours, or may provide better performance or additional features not provided by our products, which could harm our business. an additional significant source of competition is from companies that provide or intend to provide gpu, mcp, and handheld gpu solutions. some of our competitors may have or be able to obtain greater marketing, financial, distribution and manufacturing resources than we do and may be more able to adapt to customer or technological changes. our current competitors include the following: suppliers of discrete mcps that incorporate a combination of networking, audio, communications and input/output, or i/o, functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ati technologies, inc., or ati, broadcom corporation, or broadcom, and intel; suppliers of gpus, including mcps that incorporate 3d graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ati, intel, matrox electronics systems ltd., silicon integrated systems, inc., via technologies, inc., and xgi technology inc.; and suppliers of gpus or gpu intellectual property for handheld and embedded devices that incorporate advanced graphics functionality as part of their existing solutions, such as ati, bitboys, broadcom, fujitsu limited, imagination technologies ltd., nec corporation, qualcomm incorporated, renesas technology corp., seiko-epson, texas instruments incorporated, and toshiba america, inc. if and to the extent we offer products outside of the consumer and enterprise pc, notebook, workstation, pda, cellular phone, and video game console markets, we may face competition from some of our existing competitors as well as from companies with which we currently do not compete. we cannot accurately predict if we will compete successfully in any new markets we may enter. if we are unable to compete in our current and any new markets, our financial results will suffer. as intel continues to pursue platform solutions, we may not be able to successfully compete. we expect substantial competition from intel publicized focus on moving to selling platform solutions dominated by intel products, such as when intel achieved success with its centrino platform solution. in addition to its current centrino notebook platform initiative, and its announced upcoming desktop initiative branded as viiv, we expect that intel is now focused on developing and selling platform solutions for all segments including professional workstations and servers. if intel continues to pursue these initiatives, we may not be able to successfully compete in these segments. risks related to market conditions we are subject to risks associated with international operations which may harm our business. a significant portion of our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third-parties located outside of the united states. additionally, we generated 84%, 76% and 75% of our total revenue from sales to customers outside of the united states and other americas for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the manufacture, assembly, test and packaging of our products outside of the united states and sales to these 21 table of contents customers outside of the united states and other americas subjects us to a number of risks associated with conducting business outside of the united states and other americas, including, but not limited to: international economic and political conditions; unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements; labor issues in foreign countries; cultural differences in the conduct of business; inadequate local infrastructure; delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; transportation delays; longer payment cycles; difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; imposition of additional taxes and penalties; different legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property; the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; and other factors beyond our control, including terrorism, civil unrest, war and diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome and the avian flu. if sales to any of our customers outside of the united states and other americas are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. we have offices outside of the united states, including offices in taiwan, japan, korea, china, hong kong, india, france, russia, germany and england. during fiscal 2006, we substantially increased our international employee resources from 242 employees as of january 30, 2005 to 615 full-time employees as of january 29, 2006. on february 20, 2006, we completed the acquisition of uli, a leading developer of core logic technology, which added approximately 200 employees to our international operations. our operations in our international locations are subject to many of the risks contained in the above list. we intend to continue to expand our international operations and to open other international offices. difficulties with our international operations, including finding appropriate staffing and office space, may divert management attention and other resources any of which could negatively impact our operating results. currently, all of our arrangements with third-party manufacturers and subcontractors provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars as are sales to our customers located outside of the united states and other americas. increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which would negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. to date, we have not engaged in any currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future. we are dependent on the pc market and the rate of its growth has and may in the future have a negative impact on our business. we derive the majority of our revenue from the sale of products for use in the desktop pc and notebook pc markets, including professional workstations. we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from the sale or license of products for use in the desktop pc and notebook pc markets in the next several years. a reduction in sales of pcs, or a reduction in the growth rate of pc sales, will reduce demand for our products. moreover, changes in demand could be large and sudden. since pc manufacturers often build inventories during periods of anticipated growth, they may be left with excess inventories if growth slows or if they incorrectly forecast product transitions. in these cases, pc manufacturers may abruptly suspend substantially all purchases of additional inventory from suppliers like us until the excess inventory has been absorbed, which would have a negative impact on our business. 22 table of contents if our products do not continue to be accepted by the consumer and enterprise pc, notebook, workstation, pda, cellular phone, and video game console markets or if the demand in these markets for new and innovative products decreases, our business and operating results would suffer. our success depends in part upon continued broad adoption of our processors for 3d graphics in consumer and enterprise pc, notebook, workstation, pda, cellular phone, and video game console applications. the market for processors has been characterized by unpredictable and sometimes rapid shifts in the popularity of products, often caused by the publication of competitive industry benchmark results, changes in pricing of dynamic random-access memory devices and other changes in the total system cost of add-in boards, as well as by severe price competition and by frequent new technology and product introductions. only a small number of products have achieved broad market acceptance and such market acceptance, if achieved, is difficult to sustain due to intense competition and frequent new technology and product introductions. since the gpu business is our core business, our financial results would suffer if for any reason our current or future gpus do not continue to achieve widespread acceptance in the pc market. if we are unable to complete the timely development of products or if we were unable to successfully and cost-effectively manufacture and deliver products that meet the requirements of the consumer and enterprise pc, notebook, and workstation markets, we may experience a decrease in revenue which could negatively impact our operating results. additionally, there can be no assurance that the industry will continue to demand new products with improved standards, features or performance. if our customers and the market do not continue to demand new products with increased performance, features, functionality or standards, sales of our products could decline. our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities. we may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. for example, the semiconductor industry is moving towards becoming compliant with the restriction of hazardous substances directive, or rohs directive, which will become effective in july 2006. the rohs directive is european legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead. similarly, the state of california has adopted certain restrictions, which go into effect in 2007, that restrict the use of certain materials in electronic products, that are intended to harmonize with the rohs directive and other states are contemplating similar legislation. china has promulgated use restrictions on the same substances as the rohs directive, but has not yet defined either the scope of the affected products or an effective date of any such restrictions. also, we could face significant costs and liabilities in connection with the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive, or weee. the weee directs members of the european union to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electric and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment and environmentally responsible disposal of certain products sold into the market after august 15, 2005 and from products in use prior to that date that are being replaced. we continue to evaluate the impact of specific registration and compliance activities required by weee. it is possible that unanticipated supply shortages, delays or excess non-compliant inventory may occur as a result of such regulations. failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations, and criminal and civil liabilities. hostilities involving the united states and/or terrorist attacks could harm our business. the financial, political, economic and other uncertainties following the terrorist attacks on the united states in 2001 led to a weakening of the global economy. similar terrorist acts and/or the threat of future outbreak or continued escalation of hostilities involving the united states and iraq or other countries could adversely affect the growth rate of our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers, distributors and suppliers, which could also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 23 table of contents our business is cyclical in nature and an industry downturn could harm our financial results. our business is directly affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, including alternating periods of overcapacity and capacity constraints, variations in manufacturing costs and yields, significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development and rapid technological change. if we are unable to respond to changes in our industry, which can be unpredictable and rapid, in an efficient and timely manner, our operating results could suffer. in particular, from time to time, the semiconductor industry has experienced significant and sometimes prolonged downturns characterized by diminished product demand and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. if we cannot take appropriate actions such as reducing our manufacturing or operating costs to sufficiently offset declines in demand during a downturn, our revenue and earnings will suffer. political instability in taiwan and in the people republic of china or elsewhere could harm our business. because of our reliance on foundries and independent contractors located in taiwan and the people republic of china, and because we have offices in these locations, our business may be harmed by political instability in taiwan, including the worsening of the strained relations between the people republic of china and taiwan. also if relations between the united states and the people republic of china are strained due to foreign relations events. if any of our suppliers experienced a substantial disruption in their operations, as a result of a natural disaster, political unrest, economic instability, acts of terrorism or war, equipment failure or other cause, it could harm our business. we are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates. we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in commercial paper, money market funds and highly liquid debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. these investments are denominated in united states dollars. we account for our investment instruments in accordance with sfas no. 115. all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale under sfas no. 115. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. we may suffer losses in principal if forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because our debt securities are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity. risks related to government action, regulatory action, intellectual property, and litigation expensing employee stock options in future periods will materially and aversely affect our reported operating results and could adversely affect our competitive position as well. since inception, we have used stock options and our employee stock purchase program as fundamental components of our compensation packages. we believe that these incentives directly motivate our employees and, through the use of vesting, encourage our employees to remain with us. as a result of adjustments arising from our restatement described in note 2, restatement of consolidated financial statements, audit committee and company findings , of the notes to our consolidated financial statements, our operating results contain recorded amounts of stock-based compensation expense. for our fiscal years 2000 through 2006, this stock-based compensation expense was calculated using primarily the intrinsic value-based method under accounting principles board opinion no. 25, or apb 25, accounting for stock issued to employees and related interpretations. in december 2004, the fasb issued sfas no. 123(r), share-based payment, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all stock-based compensation payments. in april 2005, the sec delayed the effective date of sfas no. 123(r), which is now effective for annual periods that begin after june 15, 2005. sfas no. 123(r) requires that we record compensation expense for stock options and our employee stock purchase plan 24 table of contents using the fair value of those awards. expensing these incentives in future periods will materially and adversely affect our reported operating results as the stock-based compensation expense would be charged directly against our reported earnings. we anticipate that our stock-based compensation expense will be approximately $18 to $22 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 and we are unsure how the market will react to this adverse affect on our operating results, which could impact our stock price. to the extent that sfas no. 123(r) makes it more expensive to grant stock options or to continue to have an employee stock purchase program, we may decide to incur increased cash compensation costs. in addition, actions that we may take to reduce stock-based compensation expense that may be more severe than any actions our competitors may implement may make it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, which could adversely affect our competitive position as well as our business and operating results. we are currently involved in patent litigation, which, if not resolved favorably, could require us to pay damages. we are currently involved in patent litigation. on october 19, 2004, opti incorporated, or opti, filed a complaint for patent infringement against us in the united states district court for the eastern district of texas. opti asserts that unspecified nvidia chipsets infringe five united states patents held by opti. opti seeks unspecified damages for our alleged conduct, attorneys fees and triple damages because of our alleged willful infringement of these patents. nvidia filed a response to this complaint in december 2004. after a case management conference in july 2005, discovery began and a trial date has now been set for july 2006. a court mandated mediation was held in january 2006 and did not resolve the matter. we believe the claims asserted against us are without merit and we will continue to defend ourselves vigorously. in august 2004, a texas limited partnership named american video graphics, lp, or avg, filed three separate complaints for patent infringement against various corporate defendants, not including nvidia, in the united states district court for the eastern district of texas. avg initially asserted that each of the approximately thirty defendants sells products that infringe one or more of seven separate patents that avg claims relate generally to graphics processing functionality. in november 2004, nvidia sought and was granted permission to intervene in two of the three pending avg lawsuits. our complaint in intervention alleged that both of the patents in suit were invalid and that, to the extent avg claims target nvidia products, the asserted patents were not infringed. on december 19, 2005, avg and substantially all of the named defendants and intervenors, including nvidia, settled all of pending claims; the only surviving claims will relate solely to two non-settling defendants. as part of the settlement, the defendants and intervenors paid an undisclosed aggregate amount to avg. in exchange, all pending claims between the settling parties were dismissed with prejudice, and avg granted to all settling parties a full release of all claims for past damages and a full license for all future sales of accused products under all of avg patents, including the patents in suit. in addition, as part of the settlement, all settling defendants and intervenors fully and finally waived any claims for indemnification they may have had against any other settling party. our defenses against opti may be unsuccessful. if this case goes forward, or if other patent litigation matters involving us arise, we expect that they will result in additional legal and other costs, such as those costs associated with the avg suit, regardless of the outcome, which could be substantial. our industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions which could result in significant expense. the semiconductor industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights and positions, which have resulted in protracted and expensive litigation. the graphics processor industry, in particular, has been recently characterized by the aggressive pursuit of intellectual property positions, and we expect our competitors and others will continue to aggressively pursue intellectual property positions. the technology that we use to design and develop our products and that is incorporated into our products may be subject to claims that it infringes the patents or intellectual property rights of others. our success is dependent on our ability to 25 table of contents develop new products without infringing or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of others or by licensing the intellectual property of third parties. as such, we have licensed technology from third parties for incorporation into our products, and expect to continue to enter into license agreements with third parties for future products. these licenses may result in royalty payments to third parties, the cross licensing of technology by us or payment of other consideration. if these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, our competitive position and our business could suffer. our ability to compete will be harmed if we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and licensing arrangements to protect our intellectual property in the united states and internationally. we have numerous patents issued, allowed and pending in the united states and in foreign countries. our patents and pending patent applications relate to technology used by us in connection with our products, including our processors. we also rely on international treaties and organizations and foreign laws to protect our intellectual property. the laws of certain foreign countries in which our products are or may be manufactured or sold, including various countries in asia, may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as by the laws of the united states. this makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. we continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for particular innovations and technologies based on such factors as the: commercial significance of our operations and our competitors operations in particular countries and regions; location in which our products are manufactured; our strategic technology or product directions in different countries; and degree to which intellectual property laws exist and are meaningfully enforced in different jurisdictions. our pending patent applications and any future applications may not be approved. in addition, any issued patents may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. the enforcement of patents by others may harm our ability to conduct our business. others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or intellectual property. our failure to effectively protect our intellectual property could harm our business. litigation to defend against alleged infringement of intellectual property rights or to enforce our intellectual property rights and the outcome of such litigation could result in substantial costs to us. from time to time we receive notices or are included in legal actions alleging that we have infringed patents or other intellectual property rights owned by third parties. we expect that, as the number of issued hardware and software patents increases, and as competition in our product lines intensifies, the volume of intellectual property infringement claims may increase. we may become involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us or by our customers that we have agreed to indemnify them for certain claims of infringement arising out of the sale of our products to these customers. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. if infringement claims are made against us, we may seek licenses under the claimants patents or other intellectual property rights. in addition, we or an indemnified customer may be required to obtain a license to a third parties patents or intellectual property. however, licenses may not be offered to us at all or on terms acceptable to us, particularly by competitors. if we fail to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products used by an indemnified customer, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products either of which could reduce our revenue and harm our business. furthermore, the indemnification of a customer may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. 26 table of contents alternatively, we may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights, which could be costly. if we have to initiate a claim, our operating expenses may increase which could negatively impact our operating results. additionally, if one of our patents is invalidated or found to be unenforceable, we would be unable to license the patent which could result in a loss of revenue. regardless of the outcome, litigation or negotiations involving intellectual property rights can be very costly and can divert management attention from other matters. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits or claims. an unfavorable ruling could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. our operating results may be adversely affected if we are subject to unexpected tax liabilities. we are subject to taxation by a number of taxing authorities both in the united states and throughout the world. tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. significant judgment is required in determining our provision for our income taxes as there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, any of the below could cause our effective tax rate to be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation expense; changes in tax laws, the interpretation of tax laws either in the united states or abroad or the issuance of new interpretative accounting guidance related to uncertain transactions and calculations where the tax treatment was previously uncertain; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of any of the above, our operating results could be adversely affected. while we believe that we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate those internal controls. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements. this legislation is relatively new and neither companies nor accounting firms have significant experience in complying with its requirements. as a result, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur increased expense and to devote additional management resources to section 404 compliance. in the event that our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or our independent registered public accounting firm determine that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective as defined under section 404, investor perceptions of us may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. risks related to our common stock our stock price may continue to experience significant short-term fluctuations. the trading price of our common stock has fluctuated greatly. these price fluctuations have been rapid and severe. we believe that our quarterly and annual results of operations may continue to be affected by a variety of 27 table of contents factors that could harm our revenue, gross profit and results of operations, any of which could impact our stock price. additionally, the price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate greatly in the future due to factors that are non-company specific, such as the decline in the united states and/or international economies, acts of terror against the united states, war or due to a variety of company specific factors, including quarter to quarter variations in our operating results, shortfalls in revenue, gross margin or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts and the other factors discussed in these risk factors. provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with microsoft could delay or prevent a change in control. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. these provisions include the following: the ability of the board of directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior stockholder approval; the prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; a classified board of directors; and advance notice requirements for director nominations and stockholder proposals. on march 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to microsoft and its licensees for use in the xbox. under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. the microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of nvidia. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk we invest in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in commercial paper, money market funds and highly liquid debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the united states government and its agencies. these investments are denominated in united states dollars. we account for our investment instruments in accordance with statement of financial accounting standards no. 115, or sfas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities . all of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale under sfas no. 115. investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because we classify our debt securities as available-for-sale , no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or declines in fair value are determined to be other than temporary. these securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. 56 table of contents as of january 29, 2006, we performed a sensitivity analysis on our floating and fixed rate financial investments. according to our analysis, parallel shifts in the yield curve of both /- 0.5% would result in changes in fair market values for these investments of approximately $2.6 million. exchange rate risk we consider our direct exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. currently, sales and arrangements with third-party manufacturers provide for pricing and payment in united states dollars, and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. increases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies would make our products more expensive, which could negatively impact our ability to compete. conversely, decreases in the value of the united states dollar relative to other currencies could result in our suppliers raising their prices in order to continue doing business with us. to date, we have not engaged in any currency hedging activities, although we may do so in the future. fluctuations in currency exchange rates could harm our business in the future.