quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company's primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates obtainable on its secured and unsecured borrowings. at december 31, 2001, 52% of the company's total capitalization consisted of borrowings. the company's interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower its overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, the company manages its exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for its borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments to the extent that reasonably favorable rates are obtainable with such arrangements and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and treasury locks to mitigate its interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or to effectively lock the interest rate on a portion of its variable debt. the company does not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for trading purposes. approximately 89% of the company's outstanding debt was subject to fixed rates with a weighted average of 6.8% at december 31, 2001. the company regularly reviews interest rate exposure on its outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. the table below provides information about the company's financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in 000's). total fair 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 thereafter total value -------- -------- -------- -------- -------- ---------- -------- -------- long-term debt fixed rate..................... $15,346 $157,860 $75,030 $ 7,302 $60,176 $237,681 $553,395 $515,002 average interest rate.......... 7.52% 6.51% 7.03% 8.84% 6.17% 6.99% 6.81% variable rate*................. $ 5,000 $ -- $ -- $ -- $ -- $241,269 $246,269 $246,269 average interest rate.......... 3.27% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 2.96% 2.97% interest rate swaps variable to fixed.............. $ -- $ -- $ -- $50,000 $25,000 $ 66,990 $141,990 $ (8,756) average pay rate............. 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 6.81% 7.39% 6.34% 6.69% - ------------------------------ * excluding the effect of interest rate swap agreements. 23risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, we have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. if any of these risks occur, our business prospects, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, the market price of our common stock and the trading price of our debt securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock or debt securities. risks related to our real estate investments and our operations economic slowdown in the united states and downturns in the housing and real estate markets may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations there have been significant declines in economic growth, both in the united states and globally. both the real estate industry and the broader united states economy have experienced unfavorable conditions, which adversely affected our revenues. although our industry and the united states economy showed signs of improvement in 2012, we cannot accurately predict that market conditions will continue to improve in the near future or that our financial condition and results of operations will not continue to be adversely effected. factors such as weakened economies and related reduction in spending, falling home prices and job losses, price volatility, and/or dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the financial and credit markets could, among other things, impede the ability of our tenants and other parties with which we conduct business to perform their contractual obligations, which could lead to an increase in defaults by our tenants and other contracting parties, which could adversely affect our revenues. furthermore, our ability to lease our properties at favorable rates, or at all, could be adversely affected by increases in supply and deterioration in multifamily markets and is partially dependent upon the overall level of spending in the economy, which is adversely affected by, among other things, job losses and unemployment levels, recession, personal debt levels, downturns in the housing market, stock market volatility and uncertainty about the future. with regard to our ability to lease our multifamily properties, the increasing rental of excess for-sale condominiums and single family homes, which increases the supply of multifamily units and housing alternatives, may reduce our ability to lease our multifamily units and depress rental rates in certain markets. when we experience a downturn, we cannot predict how long demand and other factors in the real estate market will remain unfavorable, but if the markets remain weak over extended periods of time or deteriorate significantly, our ability to lease our properties or our ability to increase or maintain rental rates in certain markets may weaken, which would adversely effect our revenues. failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make payments on our debt and to pay distributions to shareholders our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to make payments on our debt and to pay distributions to our shareholders depends on our ability to generate funds from operations in excess of capital expenditure requirements and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. funds from operations and the value of our apartment communities may be insufficient because of factors that are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartment units or oversupply of available apartment units in our markets, which might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartment units; conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use; weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; 11 increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rents; inability to initially, or subsequently after lease terminations, rent apartments on favorable economic terms; inability to complete or lease-up development communities on a timely basis, if at all; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; changes in laws including, but not limited to, tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; withdrawal of government support of apartment financing through its financial backing of the federal national mortgage association, or fnma, or the federal home loan mortgage corporation, or freddie mac; an uninsured loss, including those resulting from a catastrophic storm, earthquake, or act of terrorism; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase our acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, we rely on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program, including our existing property expansion developments. while we have sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings, if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to make payments on our debt and to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price or the trading price of our debt securities. we may be adversely affected by new laws and regulations the current united states administration and congress have enacted, or called for consideration of, proposals relating to a variety of issues, including with respect to health care, financial regulation reform, climate control, executive compensation and others. we believe that these and other potential proposals could have varying degrees of impact on us ranging from minimal to material. at this time, we are unable to predict with certainty what level of impact specific proposals could have on us. certain rulemaking and administrative efforts that may have an impact on us focus principally on the areas perceived as contributing to the global financial crisis and the continuing economic downturn. these initiatives have created a degree of uncertainty regarding the basic rules governing the real estate industry and many other businesses. the federal legislative response in this area culminated in the enactment on july 21, 2010 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, or the dodd-frank act. many of the provisions of the dodd-frank act have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities; thus, the impact on us may not be known for an extended period of time. the dodd-frank act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals that are proposed or pending in the united states congress, may limit our revenues, impose fees, taxes, or other costs on us, and/or intensify the regulatory framework in which we operate in ways that are not currently identifiable. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure in particular, including certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, have created uncertainty for public companies like ours and could significantly increase the costs and risks associated with accessing the united states public markets. because we are committed to maintaining high standards of internal control over financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure, our management team will need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with these evolving standards for public companies. we intend to continue to invest appropriate resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards, and this investment has resulted and will likely continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. we are dependent on key personnel our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain the services of executive officers and other personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry, and the loss of one or several of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on us. 12 new acquisitions may fail to perform as expected, and failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel could create inefficiencies we intend to actively acquire and improve multifamily communities for rental operations. we may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired community up to standards established for our intended market position. additionally, to grow successfully, we must be able to apply our experience in managing our existing portfolio of apartment communities to a larger number of properties. we must also be able to integrate new management and operations personnel as our organization grows in size and complexity. failures in either area will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our overall results of operations. we may not be able to sell communities when appropriate real estate investments are relatively illiquid and generally cannot be sold quickly. we may not be able to change our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. further, we own seven communities, which are subject to restrictions on sale and are required to be exchanged through a 1031(b) tax-free exchange, unless we pay the tax liability of the contributing partners. this inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to service our debt and to make distributions to our shareholders. environmental problems are possible and can be costly federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such community. the owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. over the past several years, there have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. we cannot be assured that existing environmental assessments of our communities reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of any of our properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist. changes in the system for establishing united states accounting standards may materially and adversely affect our reported results of operations accounting for public companies in the united states has historically been conducted in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect in the united states, or gaap. gaap is established by the financial accounting standards board, or fasb, an independent body whose standards are recognized by the sec as authoritative for publicly held companies. the international accounting standards board, or iasb, is a london-based independent board established in 2001 and charged with the development of international financial reporting standards, or ifrs. ifrs generally reflects accounting practices that prevail in europe and in developed nations around the world. ifrs differs in material respects from gaap. among other things, ifrs has historically relied more on fair value models of accounting for assets and liabilities than gaap. fair value models are based on periodic revaluation of assets and liabilities, often resulting in fluctuations in such values as compared to gaap, which relies more frequently on historical cost as the basis for asset and liability valuation. it is unclear at this time if or how the sec will transition from gaap to ifrs. switching to a new method of accounting and adopting ifrs will be a complex undertaking. we may need to develop new systems and controls based on the principles of ifrs. since these are new endeavors, and the precise requirements of the pronouncements ultimately adopted are not now known, the magnitude of costs associated with this conversion are uncertain. we are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ifrs on our financial position and results of operations. such evaluation cannot be completed, however, without more clarity regarding the specific ifrs standards that will be 13 adopted. until there is more certainty with respect to the ifrs standards to be adopted, prospective investors should consider that our conversion to ifrs could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage we carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities and intend to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. we exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace or rebuild a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. increasing real estate taxes and insurance costs may negatively impact operating results as a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations, which are, in large part, outside of our control. if the costs associated with real estate taxes and insurance should significantly rise, our operating results could be negatively impacted, and our ability to service our debt and to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected. we may experience increased costs arising from health care reform in march 2010, the united states government enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. the legislation imposes implementation effective dates beginning in 2010 and extending through 2020, and many of the changes require additional guidance from government agencies or federal regulations. on june 28, 2012, the united states supreme court upheld the constitutionality of the health care reform legislations mandate to purchase health insurance but struck down a provision allowing the federal government to withhold medicaid funds unless a state agrees to the expansion of medicaid eligibility. therefore, due to the phased-in nature of the implementation and the lack of interpretive guidance it is difficult to determine at this time what impact the health care reform legislation will have on our financial results. possible adverse effects of the health reform legislation include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise ways in which we provide healthcare and other benefits to our employees. in addition, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. property insurance limits may be inadequate, and deductibles may be significant in the event of a catastrophic loss or a series of major losses, which may cause a breach of loan covenants we have a significant proportion of our assets in areas exposed to windstorms and to the new madrid seismic zone. a major wind or earthquake loss, or series of losses, could require that we pay significant deductibles as well as additional amounts above the per occurrence limit of our insurance for these risks. we may then be judged to have breached one or more of our loan covenants, and any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our assets, financial condition, and results of operation. compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost the americans with disabilities act, the fair housing act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require us to modify our existing communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. we cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. 14 development and construction risks could impact our profitability currently, we have two development communities and a second phase to an existing community under construction totaling 774 units as of december 31, 2012 . none of the units for the development projects have been completed as of december 31, 2012 . our development and construction activities are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs, could delay initial occupancy dates for all or a portion of a development community, and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project for which we are unable to obtain permits or authorizations; yields may be less than anticipated as a result of delays in completing projects, costs that exceed budget or higher than expected concessions for lease up and lower rents than expected; bankruptcy of developers in our development projects could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the development of our communities and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations; we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring such opportunities; we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule, or incur development or construction costs that exceed our original estimates, and we may be unable to charge rents that would compensate for any increase in such costs; occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, preventing us from meeting our financial goals for that community; and when we sell to third parties communities or properties that we developed or renovated, we may be subject to warranty or construction defect that are uninsured or exceed the limit of our insurance. risks related to our indebtedness and financing activities a change in united states government policy with regard to fnma and freddie mac could impact our financial condition on february 11, 2011, the obama administration released a report to congress that included options, among others, to gradually shrink and eventually shut down fnma and freddie mac. in august 2011, standard &amp; poor's rating services downgraded the credit ratings of fnma and freddie mac from aaa to aa+. we do not know when or if fnma or freddie mac will restrict their support of lending to the multifamily industry or to us in particular. as of december 31, 2012 , 48% of our outstanding debt was borrowed through credit facilities provided by or credit-enhanced by fnma or freddie mac with agency rate-based maturities ranging from 2013 through 2018. while the report to congress recognized the critically important role that fnma and freddie mac play in the housing finance market and committed to ensuring they have sufficient capital to perform under any guarantees issued now or in the future and the ability to meet any of their debt obligations, should they be unable to meet their obligations it would have a material adverse effect on both us and the multifamily industry, and we would seek alternative sources of funding, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. this could jeopardize the effectiveness of our interest rate swaps, require us to post collateral up to the market value of the interest rate swaps, and either of these occurrences could potentially cause a breach in one or more of our loan covenants, and through reduced loan availability, impact the value of multifamily assets, which could impair the value of our properties. our financing could be impacted by negative capital market conditions over the past several years, domestic financial markets have experienced unusual volatility and uncertainty. liquidity tightened in financial markets, including the investment grade debt, the cmbs, commercial paper, and equity capital markets. we have seen an increase in the volatility of short term interest rates and changes in historic relationships between libor (which is the basis for the majority of the payments to us by our swap counterparties) and the actual interest rate we pay through the fnma discount mortgage backed security, or dmbs, and the freddie mac reference bill programs. this creates a risk that our interest expense will fluctuate to a greater extent than it has in the past, and it makes forecasting more difficult. were our credit arrangements with prudential mortgage capital, credit-enhanced by fnma, or with financial federal, credit-enhanced by freddie mac, to fail, or their ability to lend money to finance apartment communities to become impaired or cease, we would have to seek alternative sources of capital, which might not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, any such event would most likely cause our interest costs to rise. this could also cause our interest rate swaps and caps to become ineffective, triggering a default in one or more of our credit agreements. if any of the foregoing events were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. 15 a change in the value of our assets could cause us to experience a cash shortfall, to be in default of our loan covenants, or to incur a charge for the impairment of assets we borrow on both a secured and unsecured basis. certain of our debt agreements require us to post collateral and a significant reduction in the value of our assets could require us to post additional collateral. while we believe that we have significant excess collateral and capacity, future asset values are uncertain. if we were unable to meet a request to add collateral to a credit facility, this would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to meet our loan covenants. we may determine that the value of an individual asset, or group of assets, was irrevocably impaired, and that we may need to record a charge to write-down the value of the asset to reflect its current value. debt level, refinancing and loan covenant risk may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and our ability to maintain our status as a reit at december 31, 2012 , we had total debt outstanding of $1.67 billion . payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate the apartment communities or to pay distributions to shareholders that are required to be paid in order for us to maintain our qualification as a reit. we currently intend to limit our total debt to a range of approximately 43% to 48% of the undepreciated book value of our assets. our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels and our board of directors can modify this policy at any time, which could allow us to become more highly leveraged. we may also issue new equity to maintain our debt within the target range. covenants in our credit facilities limit our net-debt (total debt less cash on hand) to undepreciated book value to 60%. as of december 31, 2012 , our ratio of net-debt to undepreciated book value was approximately 44% . in addition, we must repay our debt upon maturity, and the inability to access debt or equity capital at attractive rates to refinance maturing debt could adversely affect our financial condition and/or our funds from operations. we rely on our lenders for our debt financing and have agreements with the lenders that require us to comply with certain covenants, including maintaining adequate collateral that is subject to revaluation annually. the breach of any one of these covenants would place us in default with our lenders and may have serious consequences on our operations. interest rate hedging may be ineffective we rely on the financial markets to refinance debt maturities, and also rely on the agencies, which provided credit or credit enhancement for a large portion of our outstanding debt as of december 31, 2012 . the debt is provided under the terms of credit facilities with prudential mortgage capital (credit-enhanced by fnma) and financial federal (credit-enhanced by freddie mac). we pay fees to the credit facility providers and the agencies plus interest which is based on the fnma dmbs rate, and the freddie mac reference bill rate. the interest rate market for the fnma dmbs rate and the freddie mac reference bill rate, both of which have been highly correlated with libor interest rates, are also an important component of our liquidity and interest rate swap and cap effectiveness. in our experience, the fnma dmbs rate has historically averaged 17 basis points below three-month libor, and the freddie mac reference bill rate has averaged 31 basis points below the associated libor rate, but in the past 4 years the spreads increased significantly and have been more volatile than we have historically seen. we cannot forecast when or if the uncertainty and volatility in the market may change. continued unusual volatility over a period of time could cause us to lose hedge accounting treatment for our interest rate swaps and caps, resulting in material changes to our consolidated statements of operations and balance sheet, and potentially cause a breach of our debt covenants. fluctuations in interest rate spreads between the dmbs and reference bill rates and three-month libor causes ineffectiveness to flow through interest expense in the current period if we are in an overhedged position, and together with the unrecognized ineffectiveness, reduces the effectiveness of the swaps and caps. we also rely on the credit of the counterparties that provide swaps and caps to hedge the interest rate risk on our credit facilities. we use four major banks to provide approximately 95% of our derivative fair value, all of which have investment grade ratings from moody's and s&amp;p. in the event that one of our derivative providers should suffer a significant downgrade of its credit rating or fail, our swaps or caps may become not effective, in which case the value of the swap or cap would be recorded in earnings, possibly causing a substantial loss sufficient to cause a breach of our debt covenants. one or more interest rate swap or cap counterparties could default, causing us significant financial exposure we enter into interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements only with counterparties that are highly rated (a or above by standard &amp; poors, or aa3 or above by moody's). we also try to diversify our risk amongst several counterparties. in the event one or more of these counterparties were to go into liquidation or to experience a significant rating downgrade, this 16 could cause us to liquidate the interest rate swap or to lose the interest rate protection of an interest rate cap. liquidation of an interest rate swap could cause us to be required to pay the swap counter party the net present value of the swap, which may represent a significant current period cash charge, possibly sufficient to cause us to breach our debt covenants. variable interest rates may adversely affect funds from operations at december 31, 2012 , effectively $79 million of our debt bore interest at a variable rate and was not hedged by interest rate swaps or caps. we may incur additional debt in the future that also bears interest at variable rates. variable rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase, which would adversely affect our funds from operations and the amount of cash available to service our debt and to pay distributions to shareholders. our $884.2 million secured credit facilities with prudential mortgage capital, credit enhanced by fnma, are predominately floating rate facilities. we also have credit facilities with freddie mac totaling $200.0 million that are variable rate facilities. at december 31, 2012 , a total of $803.3 million was outstanding under these facilities. these facilities represent the majority of the variable interest rates we were exposed to at december 31, 2012 . large portions of the interest rates on these facilities have been hedged by means of a number of interest rate swaps and caps. upon the termination of these swaps and caps, we will be exposed to the risks of varying interest rates unless acceptable replacement swaps or caps or alternate fixed financings are obtainable. issuances of additional debt or equity may adversely impact our financial condition our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. accordingly, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in increased debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. if we issue additional equity securities to obtain additional financing, the interest of our existing shareholders could be diluted. risks related to our organization and ownership of our stock our ownership limit restricts the transferability of our capital stock our charter limits ownership of our capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of all outstanding shares of our capital stock, both common and preferred, unless approved by our board of directors. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in our losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of our shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the code, owning 50% or more of our shares (by value). if you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, we: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on our books; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; will consider the shares held in trust for our benefit; and will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any profit to us, or we will redeem the shares. if we redeem the shares, you will be paid a price equal to the lesser of: the principal price paid for the shares by the holder, a price per share equal to the market price (as determined in the manner set forth in our charter) of the applicable capital stock, the market price (as so determined) on the date such holder would, but for the restrictions on transfers set forth in our charter, be deemed to have acquired ownership of the shares and the maximum price allowed under tennessee greenmail act (such price being the average of the highest and lowest closing market price for the shares during the 30 trading days preceding the purchase of such shares or, if the holder of such shares has commenced a tender offer or has announced an intention to seek control of us, during the 30 trading days preceding the commencement of such tender offer or the making of such announcement). 17 the redemption price may be paid, at our option, by delivering one common unit (subject to adjustment from time to time in the event of, among other things, stock splits, stock dividends, or recapitalizations affecting our common stock or certain mergers, consolidations or asset transfers by us) issued by our operating partnership for each excess share being redeemed. if you acquire shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: you may lose your power to dispose of the shares; you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. provisions of our charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us ownership limit the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. preferred stock our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. our board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our shareholders' best interests. as of december 31, 2012 , no shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding. tennessee anti-takeover statutes as a tennessee corporation, we are subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders' best interests. our investments in joint ventures may involve risks investments in joint ventures may involve risks that may not otherwise be present in our direct investments such as: the potential inability of our joint venture partner to perform; the joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with or adverse to ours; the joint venture partner may take actions contrary to our requests or instructions or contrary to our objectives or policies; and the joint venturers may not be able to agree on matters relating to the property they jointly own. although joint owners may have a right of first refusal to purchase the other owner's interest, in the event a sale is desired, the joint owner may not have sufficient resources to exercise such right of first refusal. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of our common shares the market price of shares of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of our shares may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of our common shares to go down. in addition, although our common shares are listed on the new york stock exchange, or the nyse, the daily trading volume of our shares may be lower than the trading volume for companies in other industries. as a result, our investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares. 18 changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to our results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of our common shares we believe that the market value of a reit's equity securities is based primarily upon the market's perception of the reit's growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. for that reason, our shares may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our common shares. in addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to service our debt and to pay distributions to our shareholders. our failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future results of operations and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of our shares. the stock markets, including the nyse, on which we list our common shares, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. as a result, the market price of our common shares could be similarly volatile, and investors may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. among the market conditions that may affect the market price of our securities are the following: our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly and annual operating results; changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; additions and departures of key personnel; inability to access the capital markets; strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, dispositions, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; the issuance or sale of additional shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, including under our at-the-market controlled equity offering programs; the reputation of reits generally and the reputation of reits with portfolios similar to ours; the attractiveness of the securities of reits in comparison to securities issued by other entities, including securities issued by other real estate companies; an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for our shares; the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; speculation in the press or investment community; actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds; changes in accounting principles; terrorist acts; and general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. risks related to tax laws failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation if we failed to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation. the internal revenue service may challenge our qualification as a reit for prior years, and new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit or the federal tax consequences of such qualification. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates, plus any applicable alternative minimum tax. in addition, unless entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. this treatment would reduce our cash available for investment or to service our debt or to make distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability for the year or years involved. in addition, distributions would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction nor be required to be made in order to preserve reit status. we might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate some of our investments to pay any applicable tax resulting from our failure to qualify as a reit. 19 failure to make required distributions would subject us to income taxation in order to qualify as a reit, each year we must distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividend paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains). to the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. in addition, we would incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of: 85% of ordinary income for that year; 95% of capital gain net income for that year; and 100% of undistributed taxable income from prior years. differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of the taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. complying with reit requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of income, the nature and diversification of assets, the amounts distributed to shareholders and the ownership of our stock. in order to meet these tests, we may be required to forgo attractive business or investment opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities. thus, compliance with the reit requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates on our borrowings. at december 31, 2012 , 37% of our total capitalization consisted of borrowings. our interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps and caps, which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix or cap the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. we use our best efforts to ladder fixed rate maturities thereby limiting our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. approximately 95% of our outstanding debt was subject to fixed or capped rates after considering related derivative instruments at december 31, 2012 . we regularly review interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for our interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in 000's). 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 total thereafter total fair value long-term debt fixed rate (1) $ 5,217 $ 20,303 $ 38,012 $ 5,138 $ 79,223 $ 584,489 $ 732,382 $ 777,847 average interest rate 4.69 % 5.13 % 5.93 % 4.44 % 3.73 % 4.73 % 4.69 % variable rate (1) $ 1,486 $ 353,978 $ 160,418 $ 82,952 $ 83,221 $ 259,411 $ 941,466 $ 860,051 average interest rate 0.94 % 0.77 % 1.18 % 0.83 % 0.83 % 1.29 % 0.99 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ 190,000 $ 144,000 $ 75,000 $ $ 150,000 $ $ 559,000 $ (21,423 ) average pay rate 4.58 % 4.95 % 4.41 % % 1.06 % % 3.71 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 7,945 $ 59,631 $ 40,000 $ 89,280 $ 66,595 $ 25,000 $ 288,451 $ 288 average pay rate 6.00 % 4.72 % 4.50 % 4.88 % 5.44 % 4.50 % 4.92 % (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements. 43risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, we have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. if any of these risks occur, our business prospects, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, the market price of our common stock and the trading price of our debt securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock or debt securities. risks relating to the colonial merger we have incurred and expect to incur substantial expenses related to the merger. we have incurred and expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with the merger and integrating colonial's business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures with ours. there are a large number of systems that are in the process of being integrated, including property management, revenue management, resident payment, credit screening, lease administration, website content management, purchasing, accounting, payroll, fixed assets and financial reporting. moreover, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these integration expenses. many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. as a result, expenses associated with the merger could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the integration of the businesses. we may be unable to integrate colonial's businesses with ours successfully or realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the merger or do so within the anticipated timeframe. because colonial was a public company, we expect to benefit from the elimination of duplicative costs associated with supporting colonial's public company platform and the leveraging of our technology and systems. these savings are expected to be realized upon full integration, which is expected to occur over the 18-month period following the closing of the merger. however, we are required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of colonial with our business practices and operations. potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the businesses of colonial with ours in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the merger, which would result in the anticipated benefits of the merger not being realized in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of several different locations and integrating personnel from the two companies; the additional complexities of combining two companies with different histories, cultures, regulatory restrictions, markets and customer bases; potential unknown or unforeseen liabilities, increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with colonial, colonial lp or the merger; and performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by integrating colonial's operations with our operations. for all these reasons, you should be aware that it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our operations, services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with tenants, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. we may be unable to retain key employees as a result of the merger. our success will depend in part upon the ability to retain key former employees of colonial, as well as our key employees. key employees may depart because of, among other things, issues relating to the combination of the two companies, uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with us following the merger. accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able to retain key employees to the same extent as in the past. 13 the merger resulted in changes to maa's board of directors that may affect our strategy going forward. the composition of maa's board of directors changed as a result of the merger. maa's board of directors now consists of twelve members, including all seven directors from maa's board of directors prior to the merger and five directors who were members of the colonial board of trustees prior to the merger. this new composition of maa's board of directors may affect our business strategy and operations going forward. our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the merger. we have expanded our operations as a result of the merger and intend to continue to expand our operations through additional acquisitions of properties, some of which may involve complex challenges. our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to manage the integration of the colonial operations and our expansion opportunities, each of which may pose substantial challenges for us to integrate new operations into our existing business in an efficient and timely manner, and upon our ability to successfully monitor our operations, costs, regulatory compliance and service quality, and to maintain other necessary internal controls. there is no assurance that our expansion or acquisition opportunities will be successful, or that we will realize any operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits from any future acquisitions we may complete. we may incur adverse tax consequences if colonial failed to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes; and if that occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. prior to the merger, colonial operated in a manner intended to allow it to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes under the code. as discussed in exhibit 99.1 to our current report on form 8-k filed with the sec on september 16, 2013, qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and colonial's qualification as a reit prior to the merger was generally subject to the same requirements, risks and uncertainties as described in such exhibit 99.1. moreover, the complexity of these provisions and of the applicable treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the code is greater in the case of a reit that holds its assets through a partnership (such as we do and colonial did prior to the merger). the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within a reit's control may affect its ability to qualify as a reit. if colonial is determined to have lost its reit status at any time prior to the merger, maa will face serious tax consequences and material tax liabilities. because maa owns no material assets other than its ownership interest in the operating partnership, the operating partnership and its subsidiaries would likely be required to provide cash to maa to satisfy any such tax liabilities, which would substantially reduce the operating partnership's available cash, including cash available to pay its indebtedness or make distributions to its limited partners or maa's shareholders because, among other things: maa would be required to pay u.s. federal income tax on colonial's prior net income at regular corporate rates for the years it did not qualify for taxation as a reit (and, for such years, colonial would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to its former shareholders in computing its taxable income); colonial could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes for such periods; and unless colonial is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, neither it nor any successor company could elect to be taxed as a reit until the fifth taxable year following the year during which it was disqualified. maa is liable for any taxes payable by colonial for any periods prior to the merger. in addition, if colonial failed to qualify as a reit but we nonetheless qualified as a reit, in the event of a taxable disposition of a former colonial asset during the ten years following the merger we would be subject to corporate tax with respect to any built-in gain inherent in such asset as of the date of the merger. in addition, under the investment company rules under section 368 of the code, if both maa and colonial were investment companies under such rules, the failure of either colonial or us to have qualified as a reit could cause the merger to be taxable to us and our shareholders. as a result of all these factors, colonial's failure to have qualified as a reit could jeopardize our qualification as a reit and require our operating partnership to provide material amounts of cash to us to satisfy our additional tax liabilities and therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness or distributions to our shareholders. 14 risks related to our real estate investments and our operations economic slowdown in the united states and downturns in the housing and real estate markets may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. there have been significant declines in economic growth, both in the united states and globally. both the real estate industry and the broader united states economy have experienced unfavorable conditions, which adversely affected our business. factors such as weakened economies and related reduction in spending, falling home prices and job losses, price volatility, and/or dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the financial and credit markets could, among other things, impede the ability of our tenants and other parties with which we conduct business to perform their contractual obligations, which could lead to an increase in defaults by our tenants and other contracting parties, which could adversely affect our revenues. furthermore, our ability to lease our properties at favorable rates, or at all, could be adversely affected by increases in supply and deterioration in multifamily markets and is partially dependent upon the overall level of spending in the economy, which is adversely affected by, among other things, job losses and unemployment levels, recession, personal debt levels, downturns in the housing market, stock market volatility and uncertainty about the future. with regard to our ability to lease our multifamily properties, the increasing rental of excess for-sale condominiums and single family homes, which increases the supply of multifamily units and housing alternatives, may reduce our ability to lease our multifamily units and depress rental rates in certain markets. when we experience a downturn, we cannot predict how long demand and other factors in the real estate market will remain unfavorable, but if the markets remain weak over extended periods of time or deteriorate significantly, our ability to lease our properties or our ability to increase or maintain rental rates in certain markets may weaken, which would adversely affect our revenues. failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make payments on our debt and to pay distributions to shareholders and unitholders. our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions depends on our ability to generate cash flow in excess of operating costs and capital expenditure requirements and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. funds from operations and the value of our apartment communities may be insufficient because of factors that are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartment units or oversupply of available apartment units in our markets, which might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartment units; conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use; weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rental rates; inability to initially, or subsequently after lease terminations, rent apartments on favorable economic terms; failure of development communities to be completed, if at all, within budget and on a timely basis or to lease up as anticipated; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; changes in laws including, but not limited to, tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; withdrawal of government support of apartment financing through its financial backing of the federal national mortgage association, or the federal home loan mortgage corporation; an uninsured loss, including those resulting from a catastrophic storm, earthquake, or act of terrorism; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase our acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, we rely on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program, including our existing property developments. while we have sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings, if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to make payments on our debt and to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price or the trading price of our debt securities. 15 our operations are concentrated in the sunbelt region of the united states, in particular the state of texas; we are subject to general economic conditions in the regions in which we operate. approximately 39.5% of our portfolio is centered in our top five markets: dallas, texas; atlanta, georgia; austin, texas; raleigh/durham, north carolina; and charlotte, north carolina. our performance could be adversely affected by economic conditions in, and other factors relating to, these geographic areas, including supply and demand for apartments in these areas, zoning and other regulatory conditions and competition from other communities and alternative forms of housing. in particular our performance is disproportionately influenced by job growth and unemployment. to the extent the aforementioned general economic conditions, job growth and unemployment in any of these markets deteriorate or any of these areas experiences natural disasters, the value of the portfolio, our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt could be materially adversely affected. substantial competition among multifamily communities and real estate companies may adversely affect our rental revenues and development and acquisition opportunities. there are numerous other multifamily communities and real estate companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we have, within the market area of each of our communities that compete with us for residents and development and acquisition opportunities. the number of competitive multifamily communities and real estate companies in these areas could have a material effect on (1) our ability to rent the apartments and the rents charged, and (2) development and acquisition opportunities. the activities of these competitors could cause us to pay a higher price for a new property than we otherwise would have paid or may prevent us from purchasing a desired property at all, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. we may be adversely affected by new laws and regulations. the current united states administration and congress have enacted, or called for consideration of, proposals relating to a variety of issues, including with respect to health care, financial regulation reform, climate control, executive compensation and others. we believe that these and other potential proposals could have varying degrees of impact on us ranging from minimal to material. at this time, we are unable to predict with certainty what level of impact specific proposals could have on us. certain rulemaking and administrative efforts that may have an impact on us focus principally on the areas perceived as contributing to the global financial crisis and the continuing economic downturn. these initiatives have created uncertainty regarding the basic rules governing the real estate industry and many other businesses. the federal legislative response in this area culminated in the enactment on july 21, 2010 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, or the dodd-frank act. many of the provisions of the dodd-frank act have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities; thus, the impact on us may not be known for an extended period of time. the dodd-frank act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals that are proposed or pending in the united states congress, may limit our revenues, impose fees or taxes on us, and/or intensify the regulatory framework in which we operate in ways that are not currently identifiable. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure in particular, including certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, have created uncertainty for public companies like ours and could significantly increase the costs and risks associated with accessing the united states public markets. because we are committed to maintaining high standards of internal control over financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure, our management team will need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with these evolving standards for public companies. we intend to continue to invest appropriate resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards, and this investment has resulted and will likely continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. breaches of our data security could materially harm our business and reputation. we collect and retain certain personal information provided by our tenants and employees. while we have implemented a variety of security measures to protect the confidentiality of this information and periodically review and improve our security measures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to this information. any breach of our data security measures and loss of this information may result in legal liability and costs 16 (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and the failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel successfully could create inefficiencies. we have selectively acquired in the past, and if presented with attractive opportunities we intend to selectively acquire in the future, apartment communities that meet our investment criteria. our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; even if we are able to finance the acquisition, cash flow from the acquisition may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments on the acquisition; even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for an apartment community, we may be unable to complete the acquisition after incurring certain acquisition-related costs; we may incur significant costs and divert management attention in connection with the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, including potential acquisitions that we are subsequently unable to complete; when we acquire an apartment community, we may invest additional amounts in it with the intention of increasing profitability, and these additional investments may not produce the anticipated improvements in profitability; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate acquired apartment communities and new personnel into our existing operations, and the failure to successfully integrate such apartment communities or personnel will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our expected return on our investments and our overall profitability. we are subject to certain risks associated with selling apartment communities, which could limit our operational and financial flexibility. we periodically dispose of apartment communities that no longer meet our strategic objectives, but adverse market conditions may make it difficult to sell apartment communities like the ones we own. we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. we also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. furthermore, we may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. these conditions may limit our ability to dispose of properties and to change our portfolio promptly in order to meet our strategic objectives, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market value of our securities. we are also subject to the following risks in connection with sales of our apartment communities: a significant portion of the proceeds from our overall property sales may be held by intermediaries in order for some sales to qualify as like-kind exchanges under section 1031 of the code, so that any related capital gain can be deferred for federal income tax purposes. as a result, we may not have immediate access to all of the cash proceeds generated from our property sales; and federal tax laws limit our ability to profit on the sale of communities that we have owned for less than two years, and this limitation may prevent us from selling communities when market conditions are favorable. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances in, on, around or under such property. such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. the presence of, or failure to remediate properly, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell or rent the affected property or to borrow using the property as collateral. persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by the person. certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may also seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials and other hazardous or toxic substances. federal and state laws also regulate the operation and subsequent removal of certain underground storage tanks. in connection with the current or former ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management, development or control of real property, we may be considered an owner or operator of such communities or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, 17 therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines, and claims for injuries to persons and property. our current policy is to obtain a phase i environmental study on each property we seek to acquire, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling, and to proceed accordingly. we cannot assure you, however, that the phase i environmental studies or other environmental studies undertaken with respect to any of our current or future communities will reveal: all or the full extent of potential environmental liabilities; that any prior owner or operator of a property did not create any material environmental condition unknown to us; that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of such communities; or that environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. certain environmental laws impose liability on a previous owner of property to the extent that hazardous or toxic substances were present during the prior ownership period. a transfer of the property does not relieve an owner of such liability. thus, we may have liability with respect to communities previously sold by our predecessors or by us. there have been a number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily communities alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. insurance carriers have reacted to these liability awards by excluding mold related claims from standard policies and pricing mold endorsements separately. we have obtained a separate pollution insurance policy that covers mold-related claims and have adopted programs designed to minimize the existence of mold in any of our communities as well as guidelines for promptly addressing and resolving reports of mold. to the extent not covered by our pollution policy, the presence of mold could expose us to liability from residents and others if property damage, health concerns, or allegations thereof, arise. changes in the system for establishing united states accounting standards may materially and adversely affect our reported results of operations. accounting for public companies in the united states has historically been conducted in accordance with gaap. gaap is established by the financial accounting standards board, or fasb, an independent body whose standards are recognized by the sec as authoritative for publicly held companies. the international accounting standards board, or iasb, is a london-based independent board established in 2001 and charged with the development of international financial reporting standards, or ifrs. ifrs generally reflects accounting practices that prevail in europe and in developed nations around the world. ifrs differs in material respects from gaap. among other things, ifrs has historically relied more on fair value models of accounting for assets and liabilities than gaap. fair value models are based on periodic revaluation of assets and liabilities, often resulting in fluctuations in such values as compared to gaap, which relies more frequently on historical cost as the basis for asset and liability valuation. it is unclear at this time if or how the sec will transition from gaap to ifrs. switching to a new method of accounting and adopting ifrs will be a complex undertaking. we may need to develop new systems and controls based on the principles of ifrs. since these are new endeavors, and the precise requirements of the pronouncements ultimately adopted are not now known, the magnitude of costs associated with this conversion is uncertain. we are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ifrs on our financial position and results of operations. such evaluation cannot be completed, however, without more clarity regarding the specific ifrs standards that will be adopted. until there is more certainty with respect to the ifrs standards to be adopted, prospective investors should consider that our conversion to ifrs could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage. we carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities and intend to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. we exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and 18 ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. increasing real estate taxes and insurance costs may negatively impact operating results. as a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations, which can be widely outside of our control. if the costs associated with real estate taxes and insurance should rise, our financial condition could be negatively impacted, and our ability to pay our dividend could be affected. we may experience increased costs arising from health care reform. in march 2010, the united states government enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. the legislation imposes implementation effective dates extending through 2020, and many of the changes require additional guidance from government agencies or federal regulations. therefore, due to the phased-in nature of the implementation and the lack of interpretive guidance, in some cases, it is difficult to determine at this time what impact the health care reform legislation will have on our financial results. possible adverse effects of the health reform legislation include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise ways in which we provide healthcare and other benefits to our employees. in addition, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost. the americans with disabilities act, the fair housing act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require us to modify our existing communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. we cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. development and construction risks could impact our profitability. as of december 31, 2013 , we had five development communities under construction totaling 1,461 units. we have completed 509 units for the development projects as of december 31, 2013 . our development and construction activities are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs, could delay initial occupancy dates for all or a portion of a development community, and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project for which we are unable to obtain permits or authorizations; yields may be less than anticipated as a result of delays in completing projects, costs that exceed budget and/or higher than expected concessions for lease up and lower rents than pro forma; bankruptcy of developers in our development projects could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the development of our communities and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations; we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring such opportunities; we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule, or incur development or construction costs that exceed our original estimates, and we may be unable to charge rents that would compensate for any increase in such costs; occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, preventing us from meeting our profitability goals for that community; and when we sell to third parties communities or properties that we developed or renovated, we may be subject to warranty or construction defects that are uninsured or exceed the limit of our insurance. 19 risks related to our indebtedness and financing activities our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2013 , the amount of our total debt was approximately $3.47 billion . we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with, among other things, our acquisition, development and operating activities. the degree of our leverage creates significant risks, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our funds from operations to servicing our debt and our cash flow may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; we may be subject to prepayment penalties if we elect to repay our indebtedness prior to the stated maturity date; debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution to our shareholders and funds available for acquisitions, development and redevelopment; we may be more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns than our competitors that have less debt; we may be limited in our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions; and we may default on our indebtedness, which could result in acceleration of those obligations, assignment of rents and leases and loss of properties to foreclosure. if any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we may be unable to renew, repay or refinance our outstanding debt. we are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that indebtedness on our communities, or unsecured indebtedness, will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. if we were unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our communities on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the reit distribution requirements of the code. rising interest rates would increase the cost of our variable rate debt. we have incurred and expect in the future to incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. accordingly, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt or cause us to be in default under certain debt instruments. in addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead holders of our shares of common stock to demand a higher yield on their shares from distributions by us, which could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. we may incur additional debt in the future. we currently fund the acquisition and development of multifamily apartment communities partially through borrowings (including our revolving credit facility) as well as from other sources such as sales of communities which no longer meet our investment criteria. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. accordingly, subject to limitations on indebtedness set forth in various loan agreements and the indentures governing our senior notes, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt and in an increased risk of default on our obligations. the restrictive terms of certain of our indebtedness may cause acceleration of debt payments. at december 31, 2013, we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $3.47 billion . our indebtedness contains financial covenants as to minimum net worth, interest coverage ratios, maximum secured debt, and total debt to capital, among others. in the event that an event of default occurs, our lenders may declare borrowings under the respective loan agreements to 20 be due and payable immediately, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. a change in united states government policy with regard to fannie mae and freddie mac could impact our financial condition. fannie mae and freddie mac are a major source of financing for multifamily real estate in the united states. we utilize loan programs sponsored by these entities as one source of capital to finance our growth and our operations. on february 11, 2011, the obama administration released a report to congress which included options, among others, to gradually shrink and eventually shut down fannie mae and freddie mac. we do not know when or if fannie mae or freddie mac will restrict their support of lending to the multifamily industry or to us in particular. as of december 31, 2013 , 19% of our outstanding debt was borrowed through credit facilities provided by or credit-enhanced by fannie mae or freddie mac with agency rate-based maturities ranging from 2014 through 2018 . in 2013 , we decreased the indebtedness outstanding on our fannie mae and freddie mac credit facilities from $803.3 million on december 31, 2012 to $651.8 million on december 31, 2013 . we added $799.2 million of unsecured senior notes, decreased borrowings under unsecured lines of credit by $23.0 million, and added an additional $400.0 million of unsecured term loans. a decision by the u.s. government to eliminate or downscale fannie mae or freddie mac or to reduce government support for multifamily housing more generally may adversely affect interest rates, capital availability, development of multifamily communities and the value of multifamily residential real estate and, as a result, may adversely affect us and our growth and operations. failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. from time-to-time we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a significant amount of debt outstanding. we are currently assigned corporate credit ratings from each of the three ratings agencies based on their evaluation of our creditworthiness. these ratings are based on a number of factors, which included their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings. if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, we could be required to pay additional interest and fees on our outstanding borrowings. in addition, a downgrade may adversely impact our ability to borrow secured and unsecured debt and otherwise limit our access to capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. issuances of additional debt or equity may adversely impact our financial condition. our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. accordingly, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. if we issue additional equity securities to obtain additional financing, the interest of our existing shareholders could be diluted. risks related to maa's organization and ownership of its stock maa's ownership limit restricts the transferability of its capital stock. maa's charter limits ownership of its capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of its capital stock, both common and preferred, unless approved by its board of directors. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in it losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of its shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the 21 code, owning 50% or more of its shares. if you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, maa: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on its books; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; will consider the shares held in trust for its benefit; and will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any profit to maa, or maa will redeem the shares. if maa redeems the shares, you will be paid a price equal to the lesser of: the principal price paid for the shares by the holder, a price per share equal to the market price (as determined in the manner set forth in its charter) of the applicable capital stock, the market price (as so determined) on the date such holder would, but for the restrictions on transfers set forth in its charter, be deemed to have acquired ownership of the shares and the maximum price allowed under tennessee greenmail act (such price being the average of the highest and lowest closing market price for the shares during the 30 trading days preceding the purchase of such shares or, if the holder of such shares has commenced a tender offer or has announced an intention to seek control of maa, during the 30 trading days preceding the commencement of such tender offer or the making of such announcement). the redemption price may be paid, at maa's option, by delivering one common unit (subject to adjustment from time to time in the event of, among other things, stock splits, stock dividends, or recapitalizations affecting its common stock or certain mergers, consolidations or asset transfers by maa) issued by the operating partnership for each excess share being redeemed. if you acquire shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: you may lose your power to dispose of the shares; you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. provisions of maa's charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of maa. ownership limit the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of maa by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. preferred stock maa's charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. the board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of maa, even if a change in control were in maa shareholders' best interests. as of december 31, 2013 , no shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding. tennessee anti-takeover statutes as a tennessee corporation, maa is subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire maa and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if maa's acquisition would be in maa shareholders' best interests. 22 market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common shares. the market price of shares of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's shares may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common shares to go down. in addition, although maa's common shares are listed on the new york stock exchange, or nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's shares may be lower than the trading volume for other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares. changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to our results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of maa's common shares. we believe that the market value of a reit's equity securities is based primarily upon the market's perception of the reit's growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. for that reason, maa's shares may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of maa's common shares. in addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to pay distributions to maa's shareholders. our failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of maa's shares. the stock markets, including nyse, on which maa lists its common shares, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. as a result, the market price of maa's common shares could be similarly volatile, and investors in maa's common shares may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. among the market conditions that may affect the market price of maa's publicly traded securities are the following: our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly and annual operating results; changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; additions and departures of key personnel; inability to access the capital markets; strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, dispositions, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; the issuance of additional shares of maa's common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, including under maa's at-the-market controlled equity offering programs; the reputation of reits generally and the reputation of reits with portfolios similar to ours; the attractiveness of the securities of reits in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies); an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for maa's shares; the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; speculation in the press or investment community; actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds; changes in accounting principles; terrorist acts; and general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. 23 risks related to the operating partnership's organization and ownership of op units the operating partnership's existing unitholders have limited approval rights, which may prevent the operating partnership's sole general partner, maa, from completing a change of control transaction that may be in the best interests of all unitholders and of all the shareholders of maa. maa may not engage in a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the operating partnership, dissolve the operating partnership or, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, take any action that would result in any unitholder realizing taxable gain, without the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding op units held by holders other than maa or its affiliates, or class a op units. the right of the holders of our class a op units to vote on these transactions could limit maa's ability to complete a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interest of all of our unitholders and all shareholders of maa. in certain circumstances, certain of the operating partnership's unitholders must approve the operating partnership's sale of certain properties contributed by the unitholders. in certain circumstances as detailed in the partnership agreement of the operating partnership, the operating partnership may not sell or otherwise transfer certain properties unless a specified percentage of the limited partners who were partners in the limited partnership holding such properties at the time of its acquisition by us approves such sale or transfer. the exercise of these approval rights by the operating partnership's unitholders could delay or prevent the operating partnership from completing a transaction that may be in the best interest of all of the operating partnership's unitholders and all shareholders of maa. maa, its officers and directors have substantial influence over the operating partnership's affairs. maa, as the operating partnership's sole general partner and acting through its officers and directors, has a substantial influence on the operating partnership's affairs. maa, its officers and directors could exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interest of the operating partnership's unitholders. also, maa owns approximately 94.7% of the op units and as such, will have substantial influence on the outcome of any matters submitted to the operating partnership's unitholders for approval. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common stock, which would affect the redemption price of the op units. the market price of shares of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's shares may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common stock to go down, which would reduce the price received upon redemption of any op units, or if maa so elects, the value of maa's common stock received in lieu of cash upon redemption of such op units. in addition, although maa's stock is listed on the nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's shares may be lower than the trading volume for companies in other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares. changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to maa's results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of maa's common stock, which may reduce the amount of cash available to the operating partnership to meet its obligations. as discussed above under risks related to maa's organization and ownership of its stock, changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to maa's results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of maa's common stock. in addition, the operating partnership is subject to the risk that its cash flow will be insufficient to service its debt and to pay distributions to its unitholders, which may cause maa to not have the funds to service its debt or to pay dividends to its shareholders. maa's failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future results of operations and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of its shares and thus potentially reduce maa's ability to contribute funds from issuances down to the operating partnership, resulting in a lower level of cash available for investment or to service our debt or to make distributions to the operating partnership's unitholders. 24 risks related to tax laws failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders. if maa fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it will be subject to federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax). in addition, unless maa is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, it would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which maa loses its qualification. the additional tax liability resulting from the failure to qualify as a reit would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds available for distribution to maa's shareholders. furthermore, maa would no longer be required to make distributions to its shareholders. thus, maa's failure to qualify as a reit could also impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of its common stock. maa believes that it is organized and qualified as a reit, and maa intends to operate in a manner that will allow it to continue to qualify as a reit. however, maa cannot assure you that it is qualified as a reit, or that maa will remain qualified in the future. this is because qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within maa's control. in addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of this qualification. even if maa qualifies as a reit, we will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property and on taxable income that maa does not distribute to its shareholders. in addition, maa may hold certain assets and engage in certain activities that a reit could not engage in directly through its taxable reit subsidiaries, or trss, and will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on the income of those subsidiaries. the operating partnership may fail to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. we believe that the operating partnership qualifies, and has so qualified since its formation, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and not as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. no assurance can be provided, however, that the internal revenue service, or irs will not challenge the treatment of the operating partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating the operating partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then the taxable income of the operating partnership would be taxable at regular corporate income tax rates. in addition, the treatment of the operating partnership as a corporation would cause maa to fail to qualify as a reit. see failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates on our borrowings. at december 31, 2013 , 42% of our total capitalization consisted of borrowings. our interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps and caps, which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix or cap the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. we use our best efforts to have our credit facilities, or tranches thereof, mature across multiple years, which we believe limits our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. approximately 97% of our outstanding debt was subject to fixed or capped rates after considering related derivative instruments at december 31, 2013 . we regularly review interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. 61 the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for our interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in thousands). 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 total thereafter total fair value long-term debt fixed rate (1) $ 238,754 $ 262,141 $ 103,807 $ 82,275 $ 108,671 $ 1,495,678 $ 2,291,326 $ 2,300,098 average interest rate 5.91 % 5.23 % 5.46 % 4.43 % 4.31 % 4.22 % 4.58 % variable rate (1) $ 218,528 $ 134,914 $ 82,952 $ 383,629 $ 281,958 $ 79,411 $ 1,181,392 $ 1,119,630 average interest rate 0.74 % 1.27 % 0.76 % 1.37 % 1.86 % 0.87 % 1.28 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ 144,000 $ 75,000 $ $ 300,000 $ 250,000 $ $ 769,000 $ (20,015 ) average pay rate 4.95 % 4.41 % % 1.08 % 2.55 % % 2.61 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 59,455 $ 40,000 $ 89,280 $ 65,203 $ 32,810 $ $ 286,748 $ 287 average pay rate 4.72 % 4.50 % 4.88 % 5.42 % 4.86 % % 4.92 % (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements.risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, we have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. if any of these risks occur, our business prospects, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, the market price of our common stock and the trading price of our debt securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock or debt securities. risks related to our real estate investments and our operations continued economic weakness following the economic recession that the u.s. economy most recently experienced may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the u.s. economy continues to experience some weakness following a severe recession, including relatively high levels of unemployment and weak consumer spending. in addition, while the federal reserve took policy actions to promote market liquidity and encourage economic growth following the recession, such actions are now being curtailed as signs of improvement in the economy have emerged, and the impact of these monetary policy actions on the economy is uncertain. if the economic recovery slows or stalls, or if the economy experiences another recession, we may experience adverse effects on our occupancy levels, our rental revenues and the value of our properties, any of which could adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. we are also exposed to risks relating to the housing market recovery that has accompanied the economic recovery, to the extent that when demand for single family homes increases, demand for apartments may decline, which could adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make payments on our debt and to pay distributions to shareholders and unitholders. our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions depends on our ability to generate cash flow in excess of operating costs and capital expenditure requirements and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. funds from operations and the value of our apartment communities may be insufficient because of factors that are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartments or oversupply of available apartments in our markets, which might adversely affect occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartments; conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use or the sale of excess for-sale condominiums and single family homes; weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rental rates; inability to initially, or subsequently after lease terminations, rent apartments on favorable economic terms; failure of development communities to be completed, if at all, within budget and on a timely basis or to lease up as anticipated; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; changes in laws including, but not limited to, tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; withdrawal of government support of apartment financing through its financial backing of the federal national mortgage association, or the federal home loan mortgage corporation; an uninsured loss, including those resulting from a catastrophic storm, earthquake, or act of terrorism; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase our acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, we have relied on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program, including our existing property developments. while we have sufficient liquidity to permit 13 distributions at current rates through additional borrowings, if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to make payments on our debt and to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price or the trading price of our debt securities. our operations are concentrated in the southeast and southwest regions of the united states; we are subject to general economic conditions in the regions in which we operate. approximately 36.7% of our portfolio is centered in our top five markets: atlanta, georgia; charlotte, north carolina; austin, texas; raleigh/durham, north carolina; and dallas, texas. our performance could be adversely affected by economic conditions in, and other factors relating to, these geographic areas, including supply and demand for apartments in these areas, zoning and other regulatory conditions and competition from other communities and alternative forms of housing. in particular our performance is disproportionately influenced by job growth and unemployment. to the extent the aforementioned general economic conditions, job growth and unemployment in any of these markets deteriorate or any of these areas experiences natural disasters, the value of the portfolio, our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt could be materially adversely affected. substantial competition among apartment communities and real estate companies may adversely affect our rental revenues and development and acquisition opportunities. there are numerous other apartment communities and real estate companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we have, within the market area of each of our communities that compete with us for residents and development and acquisition opportunities. the number of competitive apartment communities and real estate companies in these areas could have a material effect on (1) our ability to rent our apartments and the rents charged, and (2) development and acquisition opportunities. the activities of these competitors could cause us to pay a higher price for a new property than we otherwise would have paid or may prevent us from purchasing a desired property at all, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. we may be unable to retain key employees. our success will depend in part upon the ability to retain our key employees. there is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry and the loss of any of our key personnel could have an adverse effect us. breaches of our privacy or information security systems could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial conditions and/or reputation. the protection of customer and employee data and our network systems are critically important to us. our business requires us to use and store personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, which may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers, and payment account information. the collection and use of personally identifiable information is governed by federal and state laws and regulations, which continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. we devote significant resources to protect our customer and employee data and our network systems. however, the security measures put in place by us cannot provide absolute security and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a data security incident in the future, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to sensitive data stored on the company's systems, that such access will not, whether temporarily or permanently, impact, interfere with or interrupt our operations, or that any such incident will be discovered in a timely manner. our information technology infrastructure could be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to company data or accounts. further, privacy and information incidents have generally increased in recent years due to the proliferation of new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of perpetrators of cyber-attacks. in the future, the company may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance the company's information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. any privacy and information incident could compromise our network systems, and the information stored by us could be accessed, misused, publicly disclosed, corrupted, lost, or stolen resulting in fraud or other harm. moreover, if a data security incident or breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information, we could be 14 materially damaged and we may be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or reputation. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and the failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel successfully could create inefficiencies. we have selectively acquired in the past, and if presented with attractive opportunities we intend to selectively acquire in the future, apartment communities that meet our investment criteria. our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; even if we are able to finance the acquisition, cash flow from the acquisition may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments on the acquisition; even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for an apartment community, we may be unable to complete the acquisition after incurring certain acquisition-related costs; we may incur significant costs and divert management attention in connection with the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, including potential acquisitions that we are subsequently unable to complete; when we acquire an apartment community, we may invest additional amounts in it with the intention of increasing profitability, and these additional investments may not produce the anticipated improvements in profitability; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate acquired apartment communities and new personnel into our existing operations, and the failure to successfully integrate such apartment communities or personnel will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our expected return on our investments and our overall profitability. we are subject to certain risks associated with selling apartment communities, which could limit our operational and financial flexibility. we periodically dispose of apartment communities that no longer meet our strategic objectives, but adverse market conditions may make it difficult to sell apartment communities like the ones we own. we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. we also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. furthermore, we may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. these conditions may limit our ability to dispose of properties and to change our portfolio promptly in order to meet our strategic objectives, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market value of our securities. we are also subject to the following risks in connection with sales of our apartment communities: a significant portion of the proceeds from our overall property sales may be held by intermediaries in order for some sales to qualify as like-kind exchanges under section 1031 of the code, so that any related capital gain can be deferred for federal income tax purposes. as a result, we may not have immediate access to all of the cash proceeds generated from our property sales; and federal tax laws limit our ability to profit on the sale of communities that we have owned for less than two years, and this limitation may prevent us from selling communities when market conditions are favorable. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances in, on, around or under such property. such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. the presence of, or failure to remediate properly, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell or rent the affected property or to borrow using the property as collateral. persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by the person. certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may also seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials and other hazardous or toxic substances. federal and state laws also regulate the operation and subsequent removal of certain underground storage tanks. in connection with the current or former ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management, development or control of real property, we may be considered an owner or operator of such communities or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, 15 therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines, and claims for injuries to persons and property. our current policy is to obtain a phase i environmental study on each property we seek to acquire, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling, and to proceed accordingly. we cannot assure you, however, that the phase i environmental studies or other environmental studies undertaken with respect to any of our current or future communities will reveal: all or the full extent of potential environmental liabilities; that any prior owner or operator of a property did not create any material environmental condition unknown to us; that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of such communities; or that environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. certain environmental laws impose liability on a previous owner of property to the extent that hazardous or toxic substances were present during the prior ownership period. a transfer of the property does not relieve an owner of such liability. thus, we may have liability with respect to communities previously sold by our predecessors or by us. there have been a number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily communities alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. insurance carriers have reacted to these liability awards by excluding mold related claims from standard policies and pricing mold endorsements separately. we have obtained a separate pollution insurance policy that covers mold-related claims and have adopted programs designed to minimize the existence of mold in any of our communities as well as guidelines for promptly addressing and resolving reports of mold. to the extent not covered by our pollution policy, the presence of mold could expose us to liability from residents and others if property damage, health concerns, or allegations thereof, arise. losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage. we carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities and intend to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. we exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. increasing real estate taxes, utilities and insurance costs may negatively impact operating results. as a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes, utilities, and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes, utilities costs and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations, which can be widely outside of our control. if the costs associated with real estate taxes, utilities, and insurance should rise, our financial condition could be negatively impacted, and our ability to pay our dividends and distributions could be affected. compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost. the americans with disabilities act, the fair housing act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require us to modify our existing communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. we cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. 16 development and construction risks could impact our profitability. as of december 31, 2014 , we had two development communities under construction totaling 514 units. we have completed 48 units for the development projects as of december 31, 2014 . our development and construction activities are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs, could delay initial occupancy dates for all or a portion of a development community, and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project for which we are unable to obtain permits or authorizations; yields may be less than anticipated as a result of delays in completing projects, costs that exceed budget and/or higher than expected concessions for lease up and lower rents than pro forma; bankruptcy of developers in our development projects could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the development of our communities and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations; we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring such opportunities; we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule, or incur development or construction costs that exceed our original estimates, and we may be unable to charge rents that would compensate for any increase in such costs; occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, preventing us from meeting our profitability goals for that community; and when we sell to third parties communities or properties that we developed or renovated, we may be subject to warranty or construction defects that are uninsured or exceed the limit of our insurance. risks related to our indebtedness and financing activities our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2014 , the amount of our total debt was approximately $3.52 billion . we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with, among other things, our acquisition, development and operating activities. the degree of our leverage creates significant risks, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our funds from operations to servicing our debt and our cash flow may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; we may be subject to prepayment penalties if we elect to repay our indebtedness prior to the stated maturity date; debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution to our shareholders and funds available for acquisitions, development and redevelopment; we may be more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns than our competitors that have less debt; we may be limited in our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions; and we may default on our indebtedness, which could result in acceleration of those obligations, assignment of rents and leases and loss of properties to foreclosure. if any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we may be unable to renew, repay or refinance our outstanding debt. we are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that indebtedness on our communities, or unsecured indebtedness, will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. if we were unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our communities on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the reit distribution requirements of the code. 17 rising interest rates would increase the cost of our variable rate debt. we have incurred and expect in the future to incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. accordingly, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt or cause us to be in default under certain debt instruments. in addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead holders of our shares of common stock to demand a higher yield on their shares from distributions by us, which could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. we may incur additional debt in the future. we currently fund the acquisition and development of multifamily apartment communities partially through borrowings (including our revolving credit facility) as well as from other sources such as sales of communities which no longer meet our investment criteria. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. accordingly, subject to limitations on indebtedness set forth in various loan agreements and the indentures governing our senior notes, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt and in an increased risk of default on our obligations. the restrictive terms of certain of our indebtedness may cause acceleration of debt payments. at december 31, 2014 , we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $3.52 billion . our indebtedness contains financial covenants as to minimum net worth, interest coverage ratios, maximum secured debt, and total debt to capital, among others. in the event that an event of default occurs, our lenders may declare borrowings under the respective loan agreements to be due and payable immediately, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. a change in united states government policy with regard to fannie mae and freddie mac could impact our financial condition. fannie mae and freddie mac are a major source of financing for multifamily real estate in the united states. we utilize loan programs sponsored by these entities as one source of capital to finance our growth and our operations. on february 11, 2011, the obama administration released a report to congress which included options, among others, to gradually shrink and eventually shut down fannie mae and freddie mac. we do not know when or if fannie mae or freddie mac will restrict their support of lending to the multifamily industry or to us in particular. as of december 31, 2014 , 12% of our outstanding debt was borrowed through credit facilities provided by or credit-enhanced by fannie mae with agency rate-based maturities ranging from 2015 through 2018 . in 2014 , we decreased the indebtedness outstanding on our fannie mae and freddie mac credit facilities from $651.8 million on december 31, 2013 to $436.9 million , including paying off all outstanding amounts on the freddie mac credit facilities, as of december 31, 2014 and added $395.8 million of unsecured senior notes. a decision by the u.s. government to eliminate or downscale fannie mae or freddie mac or to reduce government support for multifamily housing more generally may adversely affect interest rates, capital availability, development of multifamily communities and the value of multifamily residential real estate and, as a result, may adversely affect us and our growth and operations. failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. from time-to-time we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a significant amount of debt outstanding. we are currently assigned corporate credit ratings from each of the three ratings agencies based on their evaluation of our creditworthiness. these ratings are based on a number of factors, which 18 included their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings. if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, we could be required to pay additional interest and fees on our outstanding borrowings. in addition, a downgrade may adversely impact our ability to borrow secured and unsecured debt and otherwise limit our access to capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. issuances of additional debt or equity may adversely impact our financial condition. our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. accordingly, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. if we issue additional equity securities to obtain additional financing, the interest of our existing shareholders could be diluted. risks related to maa's organization and ownership of its stock maa's ownership limit restricts the transferability of its capital stock. maa's charter limits ownership of its capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of its capital stock, both common and preferred, unless approved by its board of directors. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in it losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of its shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the code, owning 50% or more of its shares. if you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, maa: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on its books; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; will consider the shares held in trust for its benefit; and will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any profit to maa, or maa will redeem the shares. if maa redeems the shares, you will be paid a price equal to the lesser of: the principal price paid for the shares by the holder, a price per share equal to the market price (as determined in the manner set forth in its charter) of the applicable capital stock, the market price (as so determined) on the date such holder would, but for the restrictions on transfers set forth in its charter, be deemed to have acquired ownership of the shares and the maximum price allowed under tennessee greenmail act (such price being the average of the highest and lowest closing market price for the shares during the 30 trading days preceding the purchase of such shares or, if the holder of such shares has commenced a tender offer or has announced an intention to seek control of maa, during the 30 trading days preceding the commencement of such tender offer or the making of such announcement). the redemption price may be paid, at maa's option, by delivering one common unit (subject to adjustment from time to time in the event of, among other things, stock splits, stock dividends, or recapitalizations affecting its common stock or certain mergers, consolidations or asset transfers by maa) issued by the operating partnership for each excess share being redeemed. if you acquire shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: you may lose your power to dispose of the shares; you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. 19 provisions of maa's charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of maa. ownership limit the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of maa by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. preferred stock maa's charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. the board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of maa, even if a change in control were in maa shareholders' best interests. as of december 31, 2014 , no shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding. tennessee anti-takeover statutes as a tennessee corporation, maa is subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire maa and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if maa's acquisition would be in maa shareholders' best interests. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common stock. the market price of shares of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's shares may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common stock to go down. in addition, although maa's common stock are listed on the new york stock exchange, or nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's common stock may be lower than the trading volume for other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of maa's common stock. changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to our results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of maa's common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit's equity securities is based primarily upon the market's perception of the reit's growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. for that reason, maa's common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of maa's common stock. in addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to pay distributions to maa's shareholders. our failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of maa's stock. the stock markets, including nyse, on which maa lists its common stock, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. as a result, the market price of maa's common stock could be similarly volatile, and investors in maa's common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. among the market conditions that may affect the market price of maa's publicly traded securities are the following: our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly and annual operating results; changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; additions and departures of key personnel; inability to access the capital markets; strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, dispositions, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; 20 the issuance of additional shares of maa's common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, including under maa's at-the-market offering programs; the reputation of reits generally and the reputation of reits with portfolios similar to ours; the attractiveness of the securities of reits in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies); an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for maa's common stock; the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; speculation in the press or investment community; actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds; changes in accounting principles; terrorist acts; and general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. risks related to the operating partnership's organization and ownership of op units the operating partnership's existing unitholders have limited approval rights, which may prevent the operating partnership's sole general partner, maa, from completing a change of control transaction that may be in the best interests of all unitholders and of all the shareholders of maa. maa may not engage in a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the operating partnership, dissolve the operating partnership or, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, take any action that would result in any unitholder realizing taxable gain, without the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding op units held by holders other than maa or its affiliates, or class a op units. the right of the holders of our class a op units to vote on these transactions could limit maa's ability to complete a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interest of all of our unitholders and all shareholders of maa. in certain circumstances, certain of the operating partnership's unitholders must approve the operating partnership's sale of certain properties contributed by the unitholders. in certain circumstances as detailed in the partnership agreement of the operating partnership, the operating partnership may not sell or otherwise transfer certain properties unless a specified percentage of the limited partners who were partners in the limited partnership holding such properties at the time of its acquisition by us approves such sale or transfer. the exercise of these approval rights by the operating partnership's unitholders could delay or prevent the operating partnership from completing a transaction that may be in the best interest of all of the operating partnership's unitholders and all shareholders of maa. maa, its officers and directors have substantial influence over the operating partnership's affairs. maa, as the operating partnership's sole general partner and acting through its officers and directors, has a substantial influence on the operating partnership's affairs. maa, its officers and directors could exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interest of the operating partnership's unitholders. also, maa owns approximately 94.7% of the op units and as such, will have substantial influence on the outcome of substantially all matters submitted to the operating partnership's unitholders for approval. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common stock, which would affect the redemption price of the op units. the market price of shares of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's common stock may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common stock to go down, which would reduce the price received upon redemption of any op units, or if maa so elects, the value of maa's common stock received in lieu of cash upon redemption of such op units. in addition, although maa's common stock is listed on the nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's shares may be lower than the trading volume for companies in other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate 21 substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares. insufficient cash flow from operations or a decline in the market price of maa's common stock may reduce the amount of cash available to the operating partnership to meet its obligations. t he operating partnership is subject to the risk that its cash flow will be insufficient to service its debt and to pay distributions to its unitholders, which may cause maa to not have the funds to pay distributions to its shareholders. maa's failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future results of operations and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of its shares and thus potentially reduce maa's ability to contribute funds from issuances down to the operating partnership, resulting in a lower level of cash available for investment or to service our debt or to make distributions to the operating partnership's unitholders. risks related to tax laws failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders. if maa fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it will be subject to federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax). in addition, unless maa is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, it would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which maa loses its qualification. the additional tax liability resulting from the failure to qualify as a reit would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds available for distribution to maa's shareholders. furthermore, maa would no longer be required to make distributions to its shareholders. thus, maa's failure to qualify as a reit could also impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of its common stock. maa believes that it is organized and qualified as a reit, and maa intends to operate in a manner that will allow it to continue to qualify as a reit. however, maa cannot assure you that it is qualified as a reit, or that maa will remain qualified in the future. this is because qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within maa's control. in addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of this qualification. even if maa qualifies as a reit, we will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property and on taxable income that maa does not distribute to its shareholders. in addition, maa may hold certain assets and engage in certain activities that a reit could not engage in directly through its taxable reit subsidiaries, or trss, and will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on the income of those subsidiaries. we may incur adverse tax consequences if colonial failed to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes; and if that occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. prior to the merger, colonial operated in a manner intended to allow it to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes under the code. as discussed in exhibit 99.1 to our current report on form 8-k filed with the sec on september 16, 2013, qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and colonial's qualification as a reit prior to the merger was generally subject to the same requirements, risks and uncertainties as described in such exhibit 99.1. moreover, the complexity of these provisions and of the applicable treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the code is greater in the case of a reit that holds its assets through a partnership (such as we do and colonial did prior to the merger). the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within a reit's control may affect its ability to qualify as a reit. if colonial is determined to have lost its reit status at any time prior to the merger, maa will face serious tax consequences and material tax liabilities. because maa owns no material assets other than its ownership interest in the operating partnership, the operating partnership and its subsidiaries would likely be required to provide cash to maa to satisfy any such tax liabilities, which would substantially reduce the operating partnership's available cash, including cash 22 available to pay its indebtedness or make distributions to its limited partners or maa's shareholders because, among other things: maa would be required to pay u.s. federal income tax on colonial's prior net income at regular corporate rates for the years it did not qualify for taxation as a reit (and, for such years, colonial would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to its former shareholders in computing its taxable income); colonial could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes for such periods; and unless colonial is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, neither it nor any successor company could elect to be taxed as a reit until the fifth taxable year following the year during which it was disqualified. maa is liable for any taxes payable by colonial for any periods prior to the merger. in addition, if colonial failed to qualify as a reit but we nonetheless qualified as a reit, in the event of a taxable disposition of a former colonial asset during the ten years following the merger we would be subject to corporate tax with respect to any built-in gain inherent in such asset as of the date of the merger. in addition, under the investment company rules under section 368 of the code, if both maa and colonial were investment companies under such rules, the failure of either colonial or us to have qualified as a reit could cause the merger to be taxable to us and our shareholders. as a result of all these factors, colonial's failure to have qualified as a reit could jeopardize our qualification as a reit and require our operating partnership to provide material amounts of cash to us to satisfy our additional tax liabilities and therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness or distributions to our shareholders. the operating partnership may fail to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. we believe that the operating partnership qualifies, and has so qualified since its formation, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and not as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. no assurance can be provided, however, that the internal revenue service, or irs, will not challenge the treatment of the operating partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating the operating partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then the taxable income of the operating partnership would be taxable at regular corporate income tax rates. in addition, the treatment of the operating partnership as a corporation would cause maa to fail to qualify as a reit. see failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates on our borrowings. at december 31, 2014 , 37.3% of our total capitalization consisted of borrowings. our interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps and caps, which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix or cap the interest rate on a portion of our 56 variable debt or on future refinancings. we use our best efforts to have our credit facilities, or tranches thereof, mature across multiple years, which we believe limits our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. approximately 96.7% of our outstanding debt was subject to fixed or capped rates after considering related derivative instruments at december 31, 2014 . we regularly review interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for our interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in thousands). 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 total thereafter total fair value long-term debt fixed rate (1) $ 260,557 $ 122,997 $ 87,794 $ 146,865 $ 566,638 $ 1,315,676 $ 2,500,527 $ 2,538,226 average interest rate 5.21 % 4.86 % 4.12 % 3.97 % 3.73 % 4.29 % 4.26 % variable rate (1) $ 193,984 $ 82,952 $ 383,377 $ 284,181 $ 3,652 $ 75,842 $ 1,023,988 $ 969,476 average interest rate 1.26 % 0.72 % 1.26 % 1.24 % 0.87 % 0.87 % 1.18 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ 75,000 $ $ 300,000 $ 250,000 $ $ $ 625,000 $ (13,392 ) average pay rate 4.41 % % 1.08 % 2.55 % % % 2.07 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 40,000 $ 89,280 $ 66,595 $ 32,945 $ 26,506 $ $ 255,326 $ 78 average pay rate 4.50 % 4.88 % 5.44 % 4.86 % 6.00 % % 5.08 % (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements.risk factors" and, from time to time, in other reports we file with the securities and exchange commission, or the sec, or in other documents that we publicly disseminate. 3 new factors may also emerge from time to time that could have a material adverse effect on our business. except as otherwise required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date on which this annual report on form 10-k is filed. 4 item 1. business overview maa is a multifamily focused, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or reit. we own, operate, acquire and selectively develop apartment communities primarily located in the southeast and southwest regions of the united states. our activities include full ownership and operation of 254 multi-family properties and partial ownership and operation of two commercial properties as of december 31, 2015 , located in alabama, arizona, arkansas, florida, georgia, kansas, kentucky, louisiana, mississippi, missouri, nevada, north carolina, south carolina, tennessee, texas and virginia. as of december 31, 2015 , we maintained full or partial ownership in the following properties: multifamily: consolidated properties units unconsolidated properties units total properties total units 254 79,496 254 79,496 commercial: consolidated properties sq. ft. (1) unconsolidated properties sq. ft. total properties total sq. ft. 1 208,037 1 29,971 2 238,008 (1) excludes space owned by anchor tenants as well as commercial space located at multifamily communities. our business is conducted principally through the operating partnership. maa is the sole general partner of the operating partnership, holding 75,408,571 op units, comprising a 94.8% partnership interest in the operating partnership as of december 31, 2015 . maa and maalp were formed in tennessee in 1993. our offices are located at 6584 poplar avenue, memphis, tennessee 38138 and our telephone number is (901) 682-6600. as of december 31, 2015 , we had 1,949 full-time employees and 40 part-time employees. reporting segments as of december 31, 2015 , we owned 254 multifamily apartment communities located in 15 states from which we derived all significant sources of earnings and operating cash flows. additionally, we had partial ownership of two commercial properties in two states. senior management evaluates performance and determines resource allocations by reviewing apartment communities individually and in the following reportable operating segments: large market same store communities are generally communities in markets with a population of at least 1 million and at least 1% of the total public multifamily reit units that we have owned and that have been stabilized for at least a full 12 months. secondary market same store communities are generally communities in markets with populations of more than 1 million but less than 1% of the total public multifamily reit units or markets with populations of less than 1 million that we have owned and that have been stabilized for at least a full 12 months. non same store communities and other includes recent acquisitions, communities in development or lease-up, communities that have been identified for disposition, and communities that have undergone a significant casualty loss. also included in non same store communities are non-multifamily activities which represent less than 1% of our portfolio. on the first day of each calendar year, we determine the composition of our same store operating segments for that year as well as adjust the previous year, which allows us to evaluate full period-over-period operating comparisons. properties in development or lease-up will generally be added to the same store portfolio on the first day of the calendar year after they have been owned and stabilized for at least a full 12 months. communities are considered stabilized after achieving 90% occupancy for 90 days. communities that have been identified for disposition are excluded from our same store portfolio. 5 a summary of segment operating results for 2015 , 2014 and 2013 is included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data notes to consolidated financial statements, note 16. additionally, segment operating performance for such years is discussed in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this annual report on form 10-k. business objectives our primary business objectives are to protect and grow existing property values, to maintain a stable and increasing cash flow that will fund our dividends and distributions through all parts of the real estate investment cycle, and to create shareholder value by growing in a disciplined manner. to achieve these objectives, we intend to continue to pursue the following goals and strategies: effectively and efficiently operate our existing properties with an intense property and asset management focus and a decentralized structure; manage real estate cycles by taking an opportunistic approach to buying, selling, renovating and developing apartment communities; diversify investment capital across both large and secondary markets to achieve a growing and less volatile operating performance; and actively manage our capital structure to help enhance predictability of earnings to fund our dividends and distributions. 2015 highlights core funds from operations, or core ffo, which excludes certain non-routine items, grew 10% over the previous year to $5.51 per diluted share and unit. average revenue per occupied unit for the same store portfolio increased 4.9% for the year ended december 31, 2015 to $1,109, primarily driven by an increase in average effective rent per unit of 4.4%. acquired seven multifamily communities, totaling 1,782 units, and sold 21 multifamily communities, totaling 5,105 units. completed the construction of two development communities, and had five communities, totaling 748 units, under construction at the end of the year. completed an unsecured public bond offering through the operating partnership. the operating partnership issued $400 million of ten year senior unsecured notes at a coupon rate of 4.00% and an issuance price of 98.990%. completed the refinancing of an unsecured revolving credit facility, increasing borrowing capacity to $750 million. operations strategy our goal is to generate return on investment collectively and in each apartment community by increasing revenues, controlling operating expenses, maintaining high occupancy levels and reinvesting in the protection and income producing capacity of each community as appropriate. the steps taken to meet these objectives include: providing management information and improved customer services through technology innovations; utilizing systems to enhance property managers' ability to optimize revenue by adjusting rental rates in response to local market conditions and individual unit amenities; implementing programs to control expenses through investment in cost-saving initiatives; analyzing individual asset productivity performances to identify best practices and improvement areas; proactively maintaining the physical condition of each property through ongoing capital investments; improving the curb appeal of the apartment communities through extensive landscaping and exterior improvements, and repositioning apartment communities from time-to-time to enhance or maintain market positions; aggressively managing lease expirations to align with peak leasing traffic patterns and to maximize productivity of property staffing; allocating additional capital, including capital for selective interior and exterior improvements; compensating employees through performance-based compensation and stock ownership programs; and maintaining a hands-on management style and flat organizational structure that emphasizes property level decision making coupled with asset management and senior management's monitoring. we believe that our decentralized operating structure capitalizes on specific market knowledge, provides greater personal accountability than a centralized structure and is beneficial in the acquisition and redevelopment processes. to support this decentralized operational structure, senior and executive management, along with various asset management functions, are 6 proactively involved in supporting and reviewing property management through extensive reporting processes and frequent on-site visits. to maximize the amount of information shared between senior and executive management and the properties on a real time basis, we utilize a web-based property management system. the system contains property and accounting modules that allow for operating efficiencies, continued expense control, provide for various expanded revenue management practices, and improve the support provided to on-site property operations. we use a yield management pricing program that helps our property managers optimize rental revenues, and we also utilize purchase order and accounts payable software to provide improved controls and management information. advances in technologies continue to drive operating efficiencies in our business and help us to better meet the changing needs of our residents. since its launch in october 2012, our residents have been utilizing our web-based resident internet portal on our website. our residents have the ability to conduct business with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. in february 2013, we completed the roll out of online leasing renewals throughout our portfolio. as a result of transforming our operations through technology, resident's satisfaction improved, and our operating teams have become more efficient. web-based technologies have also resulted in declining marketing and advertising costs, improved cash management, and better pricing management of our available apartments. in 2015, our website exceeded 4.4 million site visitors, which translates into an 22% year-over-year increase. we attribute this increase to the third quarter website redesign, extensive search engine optimization efforts and new mobile responsive capabilities. in the fourth quarter of 2015, we had over one million site visits to our website from mobile devices, an increase of 89% versus the fourth quarter of the prior year. acquisition strategy one of our growth strategies is to acquire apartment communities that are located in large or secondary markets primarily throughout the southeast and southwest regions of the united states. acquisitions, along with dispositions as discussed below, help us achieve and maintain our desired product mix, geographic diversification and rebalance our portfolio. portfolio growth allows for maximizing the efficiency of the existing overhead structure. we have extensive experience in the acquisition of multifamily communities. we will continue to evaluate opportunities that arise, and will utilize this strategy to increase the number of apartment communities in strong and growing markets. the following apartment communities and land parcels were acquired by us during the year ended december 31, 2015 : multifamily acquisitions location apartment units year built closing date residences at burlington creek kansas city, missouri-kansas msa 298 2014 january 15, 2015 skysong scottsdale, arizona 325 2014 june 11, 2015 retreat at west creek richmond, virginia 254 2015 june 15, 2015 radius norfolk/hampton/virgina beach, virginia msa 252 2012 july 28, 2015 haven at prairie trace kansas city, missouri-kansas msa 280 2015 july 30, 2015 cityscape at market center ii dallas, texas 318 2015 november 19, 2015 the denton kansas city, missouri-kansas msa 55 2014 december 17, 2015 total multifamily acquisitions 1,782 land acquisitions location acres closing date river's walk charleston, south carolina 2.5 q1/q2 2015 - various retreat at west creek ii richmond, virginia 4.4 october 14, 2015 the denton ii kansas city, missouri-kansas msa 4.5 december 17, 2015 total land acquisitions 11.4 7 disposition strategy we sell apartment communities and other assets that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when market conditions are favorable, and we redeploy the proceeds from those sales to acquire, develop and redevelop additional apartment communities and to rebalance our portfolio across or within geographic regions. dispositions also allow us to realize a portion of the value created through our investments and provide additional liquidity. we are then able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising additional capital. when we decide to sell a community, we generally solicit competing bids from unrelated parties for these individual assets and consider the sales price and other key terms of each proposal. we also consider portfolio dispositions when such a structure is useful to maximize proceeds and efficiency of execution. during the year ended december 31, 2015 , we disposed of 21 multifamily properties totaling 5,105 units and one commercial property totaling 67,735 square feet. development strategy as another part of our growth strategy, we invest in a limited number of development projects. typically our agreements are structured to minimize the construction and development risk by contracting with unrelated parties to do the work through a fixed price contract. cost overruns generally are covered by the developer or shared on a pre-determined contractual basis. we typically manage the leasing portion of the project as units become available for lease. we may also engage in limited expansion development opportunities on existing communities in which we typically serve as the developer. while we seek opportunistic new development investments offering attractive long-term investment returns, we do not currently intend to expand into development in a significant way. we expect our investment in new development will remain a smaller component of overall growth as compared to growth through acquiring existing properties. during the year ended december 31, 2015 , we incurred $38.7 million in development costs. the following multifamily projects were under development as of december 31, 2015 (dollars in thousands): project: location total units units completed cost to date budgeted cost estimated cost per unit expected completion station square at cosner's corner ii fredericksburg, virginia 120 37 $ 18,325 $ 19,900 $ 166 1st quarter 2016 river's walk phase ii charleston, south carolina 78 $ 8,887 $ 14,900 $ 191 3rd quarter 2016 retreat at west creek ii richmond, virginia 82 $ 3,547 $ 15,100 $ 184 2nd quarter 2017 cg at randal lakes phase ii orlando, florida 314 $ 10,517 $ 41,300 $ 132 2nd quarter 2017 the denton ii kansas city, missouri-kansas msa 154 $ 1,039 $ 25,400 $ 165 4th quarter 2017 748 37 $ 42,315 $ 116,600 redevelopment strategy in 2005 we began an initiative of upgrading a significant number of our existing apartment communities in key markets across our portfolio. we focus on both interior unit upgrades and exterior amenities above and beyond routine capital upkeep in markets that we believe continue to have the ability to support additional rent growth. during the year ended december 31, 2015 , we renovated 5,781 units and exterior amenities for a total of $31.0 million . we believe that the rents received on these renovated units were approximately 10.1% above the normal market rate for similar but non-renovated units. 8 capital structure strategy we use a combination of debt and equity sources to fund our business strategy. we maintain a capital structure, focused on maintaining flexibility and low costs, that we believe allows us to proactively source potential investment opportunities in the marketplace. we have structured our debt maturity schedule to avoid significant exposure in any given year. our primary debt financing strategy is to access the unsecured debt markets to provide our debt capital needs, but we also maintain a limited amount of secured debt and maintain our access to both the secured and unsecured debt markets for maximum flexibility. we also believe that we have significant access to the equity capital markets. at december 31, 2015 , 32.2% of our total capitalization consisted of borrowings, including 12.1% under our secured borrowings and 20.1% under our unsecured credit facilities or unsecured senior notes. we currently intend to target our total debt, net of cash held, to a range of approximately 38% to 42% of the undepreciated book value of our assets. our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels and our board of directors can modify this policy at any time. we may also issue new equity to maintain our debt within the target range. covenants for our unsecured senior notes limit our debt to undepreciated book value of our assets to 60%. as of december 31, 2015 , our ratio of debt to undepreciated book value of our assets was approximately 41.1%. we continuously review opportunities for lowering our cost of capital and increasing our shareholder value per share. we plan to continue using unsecured debt in order to take advantage of the lower cost of capital and flexibility provided by the public bond market. we will evaluate opportunities to repurchase shares when we believe that our share price is significantly below our net present value. we also look for opportunities where we can acquire or develop apartment communities, selectively funded or partially funded by sales of equity securities, when appropriate opportunities arise. we focus on improving the net present value of our investments by generating cash flows from our portfolio of assets above the estimated total cost of debt and equity capital. we routinely make new investments when we believe it will be accretive to shareholder value over the life of the investments. on december 9, 2015, we entered into distribution agreements with j.p. morgan securities, llc, bmo capital markets corp. and keybanc capital markets inc. to sell up to an aggregate of 4.0 million shares of common stock, from time-to-time in at-the-market offerings or negotiated transactions through controlled equity offering programs, or atms. as of december 31, 2015 , there were 4.0 million shares remaining under the atms. the following are the issuances of common stock which have been made through these types of atm agreements through december 31, 2015 : number of shares sold net proceeds net average sales price gross proceeds gross average sales price 2006 194,000 $ 11,481,292 $ 59.18 $ 11,705,010 $ 60.34 2007 323,700 $ 18,773,485 $ 58.00 $ 19,203,481 $ 59.32 2008 1,955,300 $ 103,588,759 $ 52.98 $ 105,554,860 $ 53.98 2009 763,000 $ 32,774,757 $ 42.96 $ 33,283,213 $ 43.62 2010 5,077,201 $ 274,576,677 $ 54.08 $ 278,468,323 $ 54.85 2011 3,303,273 $ 204,534,677 $ 61.92 $ 207,650,656 $ 62.86 2012 1,155,511 $ 75,863,040 $ 65.65 $ 77,019,121 $ 66.65 2013 365,011 $ 24,753,492 $ 67.82 $ 25,067,009 $ 68.67 2014 $ $ $ $ 2015 $ $ $ $ total 13,136,996 $ 746,346,179 $ 56.81 $ 757,951,673 $ 57.70 we also have a dividend and distribution reinvestment stock purchase plan, or drspp, which allows for the optional cash purchase of shares of common stock totaling at least $250, but not more than $5,000 in any given month, free of brokerage commissions and charges. we, in our absolute discretion, may grant waivers to allow for optional cash payments in excess of $5,000. during the year ended december 31, 2015 , we issued a total of 1,622 shares through the optional cash purchase feature of the drspp, resulting in net proceeds of $128,687 . 9 share repurchase program in 1999, maa's board of directors approved an increase in the number of shares of common stock authorized to be repurchased to 4.0 million shares. as of december 8, 2015, maa had repurchased a total of approximately 1.9 million shares, which represented approximately 8% of the shares of common stock outstanding as of the beginning of such authorization. on december 8, 2015, maa's board of directors authorized us to repurchase up to 4.0 million shares of maa common stock, which represented approximately 5.3% of maa's common stock outstanding at the time of such authorization. this december 2015 authorization replaced and superseded the 1999 authorization, under which approximately 2.1 million shares remained at the time of the december 2015 authorization. from time-to-time, we may repurchase shares under the current authorization when we believe that shareholder value would be enhanced. factors affecting this determination include, among others, the share price and expected rates of return. no shares were repurchased from 2002 through december 8, 2015 under the prior authorization, and no shares were repurchased from december 8, 2015 through december 31, 2015 under the current authorization. competition all of our apartment communities are located in areas that include other apartment communities. occupancy and rental rates are affected by the number of competitive apartment communities in a particular area. the owners of competing apartment communities may have greater resources than us, and the managers of these apartment communities may have more experience than our management. moreover, single-family rental housing, manufactured housing, condominiums and the new and existing home markets provide housing alternatives to potential residents of apartment communities. competition for new residents is generally intense across all of our markets. some competing communities offer features that our communities do not have. competing communities can use concessions or lower rents to obtain temporary competitive advantages. also, some competing communities are larger or newer than our communities. the competitive position of each community is different depending upon many factors including sub-market supply and demand. in addition, other real estate investors compete with us to acquire existing properties and to develop new properties. these competitors include insurance companies, pension and investment funds, public and private real estate companies, investment companies and other public and private apartment reits, some of which may have greater resources, or lower capital costs, than we do. we believe, however, that we are generally well-positioned to compete effectively for residents and investments. we believe our competitive advantages include: a fully integrated organization with property management, development, redevelopment, acquisition, marketing, sales and financing expertise; scalable operating and support systems, which include automated systems to meet the changing electronic needs of our residents; access to a wide variety of debt and equity capital sources; geographic diversification with a presence in approximately 40 defined metropolitan statistical areas across the southeast and southwest regions of the united states; and significant presence in many of our major markets that allows us to be a local operating expert. moving forward, we plan to continue to optimize lease management, improve expense control, increase resident retention efforts and align employee incentive plans with our bottom line performance. we believe this plan of operation, coupled with the portfolio's strengths in targeting residents across a geographically diverse platform, should position us for continued operational upside. we also make capital improvements to both our apartment communities and individual units on a regular basis in order to maintain a competitive position in each individual market. merger of maa and colonial on october 1, 2013, maa completed its previously announced merger with colonial properties trust, or colonial. pursuant to the merger agreement, martha merger sub, lp, or op merger sub, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the operating partnership, merged with and into colonial realty limited partnership, which we refer to as colonial lp, with colonial lp being the surviving entity of the merger and becoming a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the operating partnership, which is referred to as the partnership merger. the partnership merger was part of the transactions contemplated by the agreement and plan of merger entered into on june 3, 2013 among maa, the operating partnership, op merger sub, colonial, and colonial lp pursuant to which maa and colonial also combined through a merger of colonial with and into maa, with maa surviving the merger, which is referred to as the parent merger. we refer to the parent merger, together with the partnership merger, as the merger in this annual report on form 10-k. under the terms of the merger agreement, each common share of beneficial interest in colonial, or colonial common share, was converted into the right to receive 0.36 of a 10 newly issued share of maa common stock. in addition, each limited partner interest in colonial lp designated as a class a unit and a partnership unit under the limited partnership agreement of colonial lp, which we refer to in this report as colonial lp units, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effectiveness of the partnership merger was converted into common units in our operating partnership at the 0.36 conversion rate. the consolidated net assets and results of operations of colonial are included in our consolidated financial statements from and after the closing date, october 1, 2013. environmental matters as a normal part of our apartment community acquisition and development processes, we generally obtain environmental studies of the sites from outside environmental engineering firms. the purpose of these studies is to identify potential sources of contamination at the site and to assess the status of environmental regulatory compliance. these studies generally include historical reviews of the site, reviews of certain public records, preliminary investigations of the site and surrounding properties, inspection for the presence of asbestos, poly-chlorinated biphenyls, or pcbs, and underground storage tanks and the preparation and issuance of written reports. depending on the results of these studies, more invasive procedures, such as soil sampling or ground water analysis, may be performed to investigate potential sources of contamination. these studies must be satisfactorily completed before we take ownership of an acquisition or development property; however, no assurance can be given that the studies or additional documents reviewed identify all significant environmental risks. see "risk factors - risks relating to our real estate investments and our operations - environmental problems are possible and can be costly." the environmental studies we received on properties that we have acquired have not revealed any material environmental liabilities. should any potential environmental risks or conditions be discovered during our due diligence process, the potential costs of remediation will be assessed carefully and factored into the cost of acquisition, assuming the identified risks and factors are deemed to be manageable and within reason. we are not aware of any existing conditions that we believe would be considered a material environmental liability. nevertheless, it is possible that the studies do not reveal all environmental risks or that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are not aware. moreover, no assurance can be given concerning future laws, ordinances or regulations, or the potential introduction of hazardous or toxic substances by neighboring properties or residents. website access to our reports maa and the operating partnership file combined periodic reports with the sec. these filings are available on the sec's website which is http://www.sec.gov. in addition, all filings made by maa and the operating partnership with the sec may be copied or read at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street ne, washington, dc 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. additionally, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k, along with our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to the aforementioned filings, are available on our website free of charge. the filings can be found on the "for investors" page under "sec filings and reports". our website also contains our corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct and ethics and the charters of the committees of the board of directors. these items can be found on the "for investors" page under "corporate overview and governance documents". our website address is http://www.maac.com. reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the site and should not be considered part of this annual report on form 10-k. all of the aforementioned materials may also be obtained free of charge by contacting our legal department, 6584 poplar avenue, memphis, tn 38138. qualification as a real estate investment trust maa has elected to be taxed as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code. to continue to qualify as a reit, maa must continue to meet certain tests which, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our reit taxable income (other than our net capital gains) to our shareholders annually. if maa maintains its qualification as a reit, maa generally will not be subject to u.s. federal income taxes at the corporate level on its net income to the extent it distributes such net income to its shareholders annually. even if maa continues to qualify as a reit, it will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and its property. in 2015 , maa paid total distributions of $3.08 per share of common stock to its shareholders, which was above the 90% reit distribution requirement and was in excess of reit taxable income. 11 inflation we believe that the direct effects of inflation on our operations have been immaterial. while the impact of inflation primarily impacts our results through wage pressures, property taxes, utilities and material costs, substantially all of our leases are for a term of one year or less, which generally enables us to compensate for any inflationary effects by increasing rents on our apartments. although an escalation in energy and food costs could have a negative impact on our residents and their ability to absorb rent increases, we do not believe this has had a material impact on our results for the year ended december 31, 2015 . insurance we carry comprehensive general liability coverage on our communities, with limits of liability we believe are customary within the multi-family apartment industry, to insure against liability claims and related defense costs. we also maintain insurance against the risk of direct physical damage to reimburse us on a replacement cost basis for costs incurred to repair or rebuild each property, including loss of rental income during the reconstruction period. recent developments on february 1, 2016, we paid off the $13.5 million remaining principal balance of the mortgage on the colonial village at matthews apartment community. 12 item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, we have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. if any of these risks occur, our business prospects, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, the market price of our common stock and the trading price of our debt securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock or debt securities. risks related to our real estate investments and our operations developments such as another economic downturn, instability in the banking sector or a negative impact on economic growth resulting from current or future legislation or government initiatives may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the industry in which we operate may be adversely affected by national and international economic conditions. although the u.s. real estate market has recently improved, certain international markets are experiencing increased levels of volatility due to a combination of factors, including, among others, political instability from ongoing geopolitical conflicts, high unemployment rates, fluctuating oil and gas prices and fiscal deficits, and these factors could contribute to another economic downturn in the u.s. if the u.s. experience another downturn in the economy, instability in the banking sector or a negative impact on economic growth resulting from changes in legislation, government tax increases, debt policy or spending restrictions, we may experience adverse effects on our occupancy levels, our rental revenues and the value of our properties, any of which could adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. other economic risks which may adversely affect conditions in the markets in which we operate include the following: local conditions, such as an oversupply of apartments or other housing available for rent, or a reduction in demand for apartments in the area; low mortgage interest rates and home pricing, making alternative housing more affordable; government or builder incentives which enable home buyers to put little or no money down, making alternative housing options more attractive; and regional economic downturns which affect one or more of our geographical markets. failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make payments on our debt and to pay distributions to shareholders and unitholders. our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions depends on our ability to generate cash flow in excess of operating costs and capital expenditure requirements and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. funds from operations and the value of our apartment communities may be insufficient because of factors that are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartments or oversupply of available apartments in our markets, which might adversely affect occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartments; conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use or the sale of excess for-sale condominiums and single family homes; weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rental rates; inability to initially, or subsequently after lease terminations, rent apartments on favorable economic terms; failure of development communities to be completed, if at all, within budget and on a timely basis or to lease up as anticipated; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; changes in laws including, but not limited to, tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; 13 withdrawal of government support of apartment financing through its financial backing of the federal national mortgage association, or the federal home loan mortgage corporation; an uninsured loss, including those resulting from a catastrophic storm, earthquake, or act of terrorism; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase our acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, we have relied on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program, including our existing property developments. while we have sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings, if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to make payments on our debt and to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price or the trading price of our debt securities. we are dependent on a concentration of our investments in a single asset class, making our results of operations more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in the sector or other economic factors. as of december 31, 2015, substantially all of our investments are concentrated in the multifamily sector. as a result, we will be subject to risks inherent in investments in a single type of property. a downturn or slowdown in the demand for multifamily housing may have more pronounced effects on our results of operations or on the value of our assets than if we had further diversified our investments. our operations are concentrated in the southeast and southwest regions of the united states; we are subject to general economic conditions in the regions in which we operate. as of december 31, 2015, approximately 34.2% of our portfolio is located in our top five markets: atlanta, georgia; austin, texas; charlotte, north carolina; raleigh/durham, north carolina; and dallas, texas. in addition, our overall operations are concentrated in the southeast and southwest regions of the united states. our performance could be adversely affected by economic conditions in, and other factors relating to, these geographic areas, including supply and demand for apartments in these areas, zoning and other regulatory conditions and competition from other communities and alternative forms of housing. in particular our performance is disproportionately influenced by job growth and unemployment. to the extent the aforementioned general economic conditions, job growth and unemployment in any of these markets deteriorate or any of these areas experiences natural disasters, the value of the portfolio, our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt could be materially adversely affected. failure to succeed in new markets or sectors may have adverse consequences on our performance. we may make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. our historical experience in our existing markets does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets, should we choose to enter them. we may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including an inability to accurately evaluate local market conditions, to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities, to hire and retain key personnel, and a lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. in addition, we may abandon opportunities to enter new markets that we have begun to explore for any reason and may, as a result, fail to recover expenses already incurred. substantial competition among apartment communities and real estate companies may adversely affect our rental revenues and development and acquisition opportunities. there are numerous other apartment communities and real estate companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we have, within the market area of each of our communities that compete with us for residents and development and acquisition opportunities. the number of competitive apartment communities and real estate companies in these areas could have a material effect on (1) our ability to rent our apartments and the rents charged, and (2) development and acquisition opportunities. the activities of these competitors could cause us to pay a higher price for a new property than we otherwise would have paid or may prevent us from purchasing a desired property at all, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. 14 breaches of our privacy or information security systems through cyber-attacks, cyber-intrusions or otherwise, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or reputation. we face risks associated with security breaches or disruptions, which could result from, among other incidents, cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses or employee error or malfeasance. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber-terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. the protection of customer and employee data and our network systems is critically important to us. our business requires us and our service providers (including service providers engaged in providing web hosting, property management, leasing, accounting and/or payroll software/services) to use and store personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, which may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers, and payment account information. we also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business. we devote significant resources to protect our customer and employee data and our network systems. however, the security measures put in place by us and our service providers cannot provide absolute security and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a data security incident in the future, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to sensitive data stored on our systems, that such access will not, whether temporarily or permanently, impact, interfere with or interrupt our operations, or that any such incident will be discovered in a timely manner. our information technology infrastructure could be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to company data or accounts. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. accordingly, we and our service providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us and our service providers to entirely mitigate this risk. further, in the future, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. any privacy and information incident could compromise our network systems, and the information stored by us could be accessed, misused, publicly disclosed, corrupted, lost, or stolen resulting in fraud or other harm. moreover, if a data security incident or breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information, we could be materially damaged and we may be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation, possible liability and remediation costs which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or reputation and adversely affect investor confidence. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and the failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel successfully could create inefficiencies. we have selectively acquired in the past, and if presented with attractive opportunities we intend to selectively acquire in the future, apartment communities that meet our investment criteria. our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; even if we are able to finance the acquisition, cash flow from the acquisition may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments on the acquisition; even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for an apartment community, we may be unable to complete the acquisition after incurring certain acquisition-related costs; we may incur significant costs and divert management attention in connection with the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, including potential acquisitions that we are subsequently unable to complete; when we acquire an apartment community, we may invest additional amounts in it with the intention of increasing profitability, and these additional investments may not produce the anticipated improvements in profitability; we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate acquired apartment communities and new personnel into our existing operations, and the failure to successfully integrate such apartment communities or personnel will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our expected return on our investments and our overall profitability; and we may acquire properties that are subject to liabilities or that have problems relating to environmental condition, state of title, physical condition or compliance with zoning laws, building codes or other legal requirements and in each case, our acquisition may be without any, or with only limited, recourse with respect to unknown liabilities or conditions and we may be obligated to pay substantial sums to settle or cure it, which could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results. 15 we are subject to certain risks associated with selling apartment communities, which could limit our operational and financial flexibility. we periodically dispose of apartment communities that no longer meet our strategic objectives, but adverse market conditions may make it difficult to sell apartment communities like the ones we own. we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. we also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. furthermore, we may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. these conditions may limit our ability to dispose of properties and to change our portfolio promptly in order to meet our strategic objectives, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market value of our securities. we are also subject to the following risks in connection with sales of our apartment communities: a significant portion of the proceeds from our overall property sales may be held by intermediaries in order for some sales to qualify as like-kind exchanges under section 1031 of the code, so that any related capital gain can be deferred for federal income tax purposes. as a result, we may not have immediate access to all of the cash proceeds generated from our property sales; and federal tax laws applicable to reits limit our ability to profit on the sale of communities, and this limitation may prevent us from selling communities when market conditions are favorable. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances in, on, around or under such property. such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. the presence of, or failure to remediate properly, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell or rent the affected property or to borrow using the property as collateral. persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by the person. certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may also seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials and other hazardous or toxic substances. federal and state laws also regulate the operation and subsequent removal of certain underground storage tanks. in connection with the current or former ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management, development or control of real property, we may be considered an owner or operator of such communities or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines, and claims for injuries to persons and property. our current policy is to obtain a phase i environmental study on each property we seek to acquire, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling, and to proceed accordingly. we cannot assure you, however, that the phase i environmental studies or other environmental studies undertaken with respect to any of our current or future communities will reveal: all or the full extent of potential environmental liabilities; that any prior owner or operator of a property did not create any material environmental condition unknown to us; that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of such communities; or that environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. certain environmental laws impose liability on a previous owner of property to the extent that hazardous or toxic substances were present during the prior ownership period. a transfer of the property does not relieve an owner of such liability. thus, we may have liability with respect to communities previously sold by our predecessors or by us. there have been a number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily communities alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. insurance carriers have reacted to these liability awards by excluding mold related claims from standard policies and pricing mold endorsements separately. we have obtained a separate pollution insurance policy that covers mold-related claims and have adopted programs designed to minimize the existence of mold in any of our communities as well as guidelines for promptly addressing and resolving reports of mold. to the extent not covered by our pollution policy, the presence of mold could expose us to liability from residents and others if property damage, health concerns, or allegations thereof, arise. 16 losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage, which may negatively impact our results of operations and reduce the value of our properties. we carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities and intend to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. we exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. any losses we experience that are not fully covered by our insurance may negatively impact our results of operations and may reduce the value of our properties. increasing real estate taxes, utilities and insurance costs may negatively impact operating results. as a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes, utilities, and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes, utilities costs and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations, which can be widely outside of our control. if the costs associated with real estate taxes, utilities and insurance should rise, without being offset by a corresponding increase in rental rates, our results of operations could be negatively impacted, and our ability to pay our dividends and distributions and senior debt could be affected. compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost. the americans with disabilities act, the fair housing act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require us to modify our existing communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. we cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. development and construction risks could impact our profitability. as of december 31, 2015, we had five development communities under construction totaling 748 units. we had completed 37 units for these development projects as of december 31, 2015. our development and construction activities are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs, could delay initial occupancy dates for all or a portion of a development community, and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project for which we are unable to obtain permits or authorizations; yields may be less than anticipated as a result of delays in completing projects, costs that exceed budget and/or higher than expected concessions for lease up and lower rents than pro forma; bankruptcy of developers in our development projects could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the development of our communities and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations; we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring such opportunities; we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule, or incur development or construction costs that exceed our original estimates, and we may be unable to charge rents that would compensate for any increase in such costs; occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, preventing us from meeting our profitability goals for that community; and when we sell to third parties communities or properties that we developed or renovated, we may be subject to warranty or construction defects that are uninsured or exceed the limit of our insurance. 17 we may be unable to retain key employees. our success will depend in part upon the ability to retain our key employees. there is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry and the loss of any of our key personnel could have an adverse effect us. risks related to our indebtedness and financing activities our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2015 , the amount of our total debt was approximately $3.43 billion . we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with, among other things, our acquisition, development and operating activities. the degree of our leverage creates significant risks, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our funds from operations to servicing our debt and our cash flow may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; we may be subject to prepayment penalties if we elect to repay our indebtedness prior to the stated maturity date; debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution to our shareholders and funds available for acquisitions, development and redevelopment; we may be more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns than our competitors that have less debt; we may be limited in our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions; and we may default on our indebtedness, which could result in acceleration of those obligations, assignment of rents and leases and loss of properties to foreclosure. if any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we may be unable to renew, repay or refinance our outstanding debt which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that indebtedness on our communities, or unsecured indebtedness, will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. if we were unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our communities on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the reit distribution requirements of the code. rising interest rates would increase the cost of our variable rate debt. we have incurred and expect in the future to incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. accordingly, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt or cause us to be in default under certain debt instruments. in addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead holders of our shares of common stock to demand a higher yield on their shares from distributions by us, which could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. we may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely impact our financial condition. we currently fund the acquisition and development of multifamily apartment communities partially through borrowings (including our revolving credit facility) as well as from other sources such as sales of communities which no longer meet our investment criteria. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur, and we may issue more debt in the future. accordingly, subject to limitations on indebtedness set forth in various loan agreements and the indentures governing our senior notes, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt and in an increased risk of default on our obligations. 18 the restrictive terms of certain of our indebtedness may cause acceleration of debt payments. at december 31, 2015 , we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $3.43 billion . our indebtedness contains financial covenants as to interest coverage ratios, maximum secured debt, maintenance of unencumbered asset value, and total debt to gross assets, among others. in the event that an event of default occurs, our lenders may declare borrowings under the respective loan agreements to be due and payable immediately, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. a change in united states government policy with regard to fannie mae and freddie mac could impact our financial condition. fannie mae and freddie mac are a major source of financing for multifamily real estate in the united states. we utilize loan programs sponsored by these entities as one source of capital to finance our growth and our operations. there has been ongoing discussion by the government with regard to the long term structure and viability of fannie mae and freddie mac, which could result in these agencies having their mandates changed or reduced, losing key personnel, being disbanded or reorganized by the government or otherwise discontinuing to provide liquidity for the multifamily sector. we do not know when or if fannie mae or freddie mac will restrict their support of lending to the multifamily industry or to us in particular. as of december 31, 2015 , 7% of our outstanding debt was borrowed through a credit facility provided by or credit-enhanced by fannie mae with agency rate-based maturities ranging from 2016 through 2018 . in 2015 , we decreased the indebtedness outstanding on our fannie mae credit facilities from $436.9 million on december 31, 2014 to $240.0 million . a decision by the u.s. government to eliminate or downscale fannie mae or freddie mac or to reduce government support for multifamily housing more generally may adversely affect interest rates, capital availability, development of multifamily communities and the value of multifamily residential real estate and, as a result, may adversely affect us and our growth and operations. failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. from time-to-time, we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a significant amount of debt outstanding. we are currently assigned corporate credit ratings from each of the three ratings agencies based on their evaluation of our creditworthiness. these ratings are based on a number of factors, which included their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings. if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, we could be required to pay additional interest and fees on our outstanding borrowings. in addition, a downgrade may adversely impact our ability to borrow secured and unsecured debt and otherwise limit our access to capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. issuances of additional debt or equity may adversely impact our financial condition. our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. accordingly, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. if we issue additional equity securities to obtain additional financing, the interest of our existing shareholders could be diluted. 19 risks related to maa's organization and ownership of its stock maa's ownership limit restricts the transferability of its capital stock. maa's charter limits ownership of its capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of its capital stock, both common and preferred, unless approved by its board of directors. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in it losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of its shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the code, owning 50% or more of its shares. if you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, maa: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on its books; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; will consider the shares held in trust for its benefit; and will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any profit to maa, or maa will redeem the shares. if maa redeems the shares, you will be paid a price equal to the lesser of: the principal price paid for the shares by the holder, a price per share equal to the market price (as determined in the manner set forth in its charter) of the applicable capital stock, the market price (as so determined) on the date such holder would, but for the restrictions on transfers set forth in its charter, be deemed to have acquired ownership of the shares and the maximum price allowed under tennessee greenmail act (such price being the average of the highest and lowest closing market price for the shares during the 30 trading days preceding the purchase of such shares or, if the holder of such shares has commenced a tender offer or has announced an intention to seek control of maa, during the 30 trading days preceding the commencement of such tender offer or the making of such announcement). the redemption price may be paid, at maa's option, by delivering one common unit (subject to adjustment from time to time in the event of, among other things, stock splits, stock dividends, or recapitalizations affecting its common stock or certain mergers, consolidations or asset transfers by maa) issued by the operating partnership for each excess share being redeemed. if you acquire shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: you may lose your power to dispose of the shares; you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. provisions of maa's charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of maa. ownership limit the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of maa by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. preferred stock maa's charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. the board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of maa, even if a change in control were in maa shareholders' best interests. as of december 31, 2015 , no shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding. tennessee anti-takeover statutes as a tennessee corporation, maa is subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes 20 may delay or prevent offers to acquire maa and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if maa's acquisition would be in maa shareholders' best interests. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common stock. the market price of shares of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's shares may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common stock to go down. in addition, although maa's common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange, or nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's common stock may be lower than the trading volume for other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of maa's common stock. changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to our results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of maa's common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit's equity securities is based primarily upon the market's perception of the reit's growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. for that reason, maa's common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of maa's common stock. in addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to pay distributions to maa's shareholders. our failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of maa's stock. the stock markets, including nyse, on which maa lists its common stock, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. as a result, the market price of maa's common stock could be similarly volatile, and investors in maa's common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. among the market conditions that may affect the market price of maa's publicly traded securities are the following: our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly and annual operating results; changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; additions and departures of key personnel; inability to access the capital markets; strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, dispositions, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; the issuance of additional shares of maa's common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, including under maa's at-the-market offering programs; the reputation of reits generally and the reputation of reits with portfolios similar to ours; the attractiveness of the securities of reits in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies); an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for maa's common stock; the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; speculation in the press or investment community; actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds; changes in accounting principles; terrorist acts; and general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. 21 risks related to the operating partnership's organization and ownership of op units the operating partnership's existing unitholders have limited approval rights, which may prevent the operating partnership's sole general partner, maa, from completing a change of control transaction that may be in the best interests of all unitholders and of all the shareholders of maa. maa may not engage in a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the operating partnership, dissolve the operating partnership or, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, take any action that would result in any unitholder realizing taxable gain, without the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding op units held by holders other than maa or its affiliates, or class a op units. the right of the holders of our class a op units to vote on these transactions could limit maa's ability to complete a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interest of all of our unitholders and all shareholders of maa. in certain circumstances, certain of the operating partnership's unitholders must approve the operating partnership's sale of certain properties contributed by the unitholders. in certain circumstances as detailed in the partnership agreement of the operating partnership, the operating partnership may not sell or otherwise transfer certain properties unless a specified percentage of the limited partners who were partners in the limited partnership holding such properties at the time of its acquisition by us approves such sale or transfer. the exercise of these approval rights by the operating partnership's unitholders could delay or prevent the operating partnership from completing a transaction that may be in the best interest of all of the operating partnership's unitholders and all shareholders of maa. maa, its officers and directors have substantial influence over the operating partnership's affairs. maa, as the operating partnership's sole general partner and acting through its officers and directors, has a substantial influence on the operating partnership's affairs. maa, its officers and directors could exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interest of the operating partnership's unitholders. also, maa owns approximately 94.8% of the op units and as such, will have substantial influence on the outcome of substantially all matters submitted to the operating partnership's unitholders for approval. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common stock, which would affect the redemption price of the op units. the market price of shares of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's common stock may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common stock to go down, which would reduce the price received upon redemption of any op units, or if maa so elects, the value of maa's common stock received in lieu of cash upon redemption of such op units. in addition, although maa's common stock is listed on the nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's shares may be lower than the trading volume for companies in other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares. insufficient cash flow from operations or a decline in the market price of maa's common stock may reduce the amount of cash available to the operating partnership to meet its obligations. t he operating partnership is subject to the risk that its cash flow will be insufficient to service its debt and to pay distributions to its unitholders, which may cause maa to not have the funds to pay distributions to its shareholders. maa's failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future results of operations and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of its shares and thus potentially reduce maa's ability to contribute funds from issuances down to the operating partnership, resulting in a lower level of cash available for investment or to service our debt or to make distributions to the operating partnership's unitholders. 22 risks related to tax laws failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders. if maa fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it will be subject to federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax). in addition, unless maa is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, it would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which maa loses its qualification. the additional tax liability resulting from the failure to qualify as a reit would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds available for distribution to maa's shareholders. furthermore, maa would no longer be required to make distributions to its shareholders. thus, maa's failure to qualify as a reit could also impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of its common stock. maa believes that it is organized and qualified as a reit, and maa intends to operate in a manner that will allow it to continue to qualify as a reit. however, maa cannot assure you that it is qualified as a reit, or that maa will remain qualified in the future. this is because qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within maa's control. in addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of this qualification. even if maa qualifies as a reit, maa will be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property and on taxable income that maa does not distribute to its shareholders. in addition, maa may hold certain assets and engage in certain activities that a reit could not engage in directly through its taxable reit subsidiaries, or trss, and those trss will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on their taxable incomes without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction applicable to reits. we may incur adverse tax consequences if colonial failed to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes; and if that occurs, it may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. prior to the merger, colonial operated in a manner intended to allow it to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes under the code. as discussed in exhibit 99.1 to our current report on form 8-k filed with the sec on march 19, 2015, qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and colonial's qualification as a reit prior to the merger was generally subject to the same requirements, risks and uncertainties as described in such exhibit 99.1. moreover, the complexity of these provisions and of the applicable treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the code is greater in the case of a reit that holds its assets through a partnership (such as we do and colonial did prior to the merger). the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within a reit's control may affect its ability to qualify as a reit. if colonial is determined to have lost its reit status at any time prior to the merger, maa will face serious tax consequences and material tax liabilities. because maa owns no material assets other than its ownership interest in the operating partnership, the operating partnership and its subsidiaries would likely be required to provide cash to maa to satisfy any such tax liabilities, which would substantially reduce the operating partnership's available cash, including cash available to pay its indebtedness or make distributions to its limited partners or maa's shareholders because, among other things: maa would be required to pay u.s. federal income tax on colonial's prior net income at regular corporate rates for the years colonial did not qualify for taxation as a reit (and, for such years, colonial would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to its former shareholders in computing its taxable income); colonial could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes for such periods; and unless colonial is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, neither it nor any successor company could elect to be taxed as a reit until the fifth taxable year following the year during which it was disqualified. maa is liable for any taxes payable by colonial for any periods prior to the merger. in addition, if colonial failed to qualify as a reit but we nonetheless qualified as a reit, in the event of a taxable disposition of a former colonial asset during 23 the five years following the merger we would be subject to corporate tax with respect to any built-in gain inherent in such asset as of the date of the merger. in addition, under the investment company rules under section 368 of the code, if both maa and colonial were investment companies under such rules, the failure of either colonial or us to have qualified as a reit could cause the merger to be taxable to us and our shareholders. as a result of all these factors, colonial's failure to have qualified as a reit could jeopardize our qualification as a reit and require our operating partnership to provide material amounts of cash to us to satisfy our additional tax liabilities and therefore have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects and our ability to make payments on our indebtedness or distributions to our shareholders. the operating partnership may fail to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. we believe that the operating partnership qualifies, and has so qualified since its formation, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and not as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. no assurance can be provided, however, that the internal revenue service, or irs, will not challenge the treatment of the operating partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating the operating partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then the taxable income of the operating partnership would be taxable at regular corporate income tax rates. in addition, the treatment of the operating partnership as a corporation would cause maa to fail to qualify as a reit. see failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders above. recent tax legislation impacts certain u.s. federal income tax rules applicable to reits and could adversely affect our current tax positions. the recently enacted protecting americans from tax hikes act of 2015 (the path act ) contains changes to certain aspects of the u.s. federal income tax rules applicable to us. the path act is the most recent example of changes to the reit rules, and additional legislative changes may occur that could adversely affect our current tax positions. the path act modifies various rules that apply to our ownership of, and business relationship with, our trss and reduces the maximum allowable value of our assets attributable to trss from 25% to 20% which could impact our ability to enter into future investments. the path act makes permanent the reduction of the recognition period (from ten years to five years) during which an entity that converted from a corporation to a reit or was acquired by a reit is subject to a corporate-level tax on built-in gains recognized during such period, which could influence the types of investments we enter into in the future. the path act also makes multiple changes related to the foreign investment in real property tax act, expands prohibited transaction safe harbors and qualifying hedges, and repeals the preferential dividend rule for public reits previously applicable to us. lastly, the path act adjusts the way we may calculate certain earnings and profits calculations to avoid double taxation at the stockholder level, and expands the types of qualifying assets and income for purposes of the reit requirements. the provisions enacted by the path act could result in changes in our tax positions or investments, and future legislative changes related to those rules described above could have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk includes risks that arise from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices and other market changes that affect market sensitive instruments. our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates on our borrowings. at december 31, 2015 , 32.2% of our total capitalization consisted of borrowings. our interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps and caps, which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix or cap the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. we use our best efforts to have our credit facilities, or tranches thereof, mature across multiple years, which we believe limits our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. at december 31, 2015, approximately 95.9% of our outstanding debt was subject to fixed or capped rates after considering related derivative instruments we regularly review interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for our interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in thousands). 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 total thereafter total fair value long-term debt fixed rate $ 127,716 $ 93,105 $ 200,060 $ 546,768 $ 155,988 $ 1,489,026 $ 2,612,663 $ 2,646,088 average interest rate 4.78 % 4.07 % 4.14 % 3.72 % 4.42 % 4.19 % 4.13 % variable rate (1) $ 80,097 $ 80,221 $ 280,033 $ (250 ) $ 224,829 $ 149,975 $ 814,905 $ 817,650 average interest rate 1.97 % 0.82 % 1.33 % 1.35 % 0.92 % 1.33 % 1.23 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ $ 300,000 $ 250,000 $ $ $ $ 550,000 $ (10,358 ) average pay rate % 1.08 % 2.55 % % % % 1.75 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 75,000 $ 25,000 $ 25,000 $ $ $ $ 125,000 $ 6 average pay rate 4.67 % 4.50 % 4.50 % % % % 4.60 % (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements.risk factors" and, from time to time, in other reports we file with the securities and exchange commission, or the sec, or in other documents that we publicly disseminate. new factors may also emerge from time to time that could have a material adverse effect on our business. except as otherwise required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date on which this annual report on form 10-k is filed. 4 item 1. business overview maa is a multifamily focused, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or reit. we own, operate, acquire and selectively develop apartment communities primarily located in the southeast and southwest regions of the united states. as of december 31, 2016, activities include full ownership and operation of 302 multi-family properties, which includes commercial space at certain properties, and four additional commercial properties, along with partial ownership in one multifamily property . these properties are located in alabama, arizona, arkansas, florida, georgia, kansas, kentucky, maryland, mississippi, missouri, nevada, north carolina, south carolina, tennessee, texas, virginia and washington, d.c. as of december 31, 2016 , we maintained full or partial ownership in the following properties: multifamily: consolidated properties units unconsolidated properties units total properties total units 302 99,124 1 269 303 99,393 commercial: consolidated properties sq. ft. (1) unconsolidated properties sq. ft. total properties total sq. ft. 4 269,242 4 269,242 (1) excludes space owned by anchor tenants as well as commercial space located at multifamily communities. our business is conducted principally through the operating partnership. maa is the sole general partner of the operating partnership, holding 113,518,212 op units, comprising a 96.4% partnership interest in the operating partnership as of december 31, 2016 . maa and maalp were formed in tennessee in 1993. our offices are located at 6584 poplar avenue, memphis, tennessee 38138 and our telephone number is (901) 682-6600. as of december 31, 2016 , we had 2,466 full-time employees and 62 part-time employees. merger of maa and post properties on december 1, 2016, maa completed its previously announced merger with post properties. pursuant to the agreement and plan of merger (the "merger agreement"), post properties merged with and into maa, with maa continuing as the surviving corporation (the "parent merger"), and post lp merged with and into maalp, with maalp continuing as the surviving entity (the "partnership merger"). we refer to the parent merger, together with the partnership merger, as the merger in this annual report on form 10-k. under the terms of the merger agreement, each share of post properties common stock was converted into the right to receive 0.71 of a newly issued share of maa common stock including the right, if any, to receive cash in lieu of fractional shares of maa common stock. in addition, each limited partner interest in post lp designated as a "class a unit" automatically converted into the right to receive 0.71 of a newly issued partnership unit of maalp. also, each share of post properties series a preferred stock was automatically converted into the right to receive one newly issued share of maa's 8.50% series i cumulative redeemable preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share, which we refer to as maa series i preferred stock. each newly issued share of maa series i preferred stock has the same rights, preferences, privileges, and voting powers as those of the post properties series a preferred stock. the net assets and results of operations of post properties are included in our consolidated financial statements from the closing date, december 1, 2016, through december 31, 2016, the end of our fiscal year. 5 reporting segments as of december 31, 2016 , we owned 302 multifamily apartment communities located in 16 states from which we derived all significant sources of earnings and operating cash flows. additionally, we had full ownership of four commercial properties in three states. senior management evaluates performance and determines resource allocations by reviewing apartment communities individually and in the following reportable operating segments: large market same store communities are generally communities in markets with a population of at least 1 million and at least 1% of the total public multifamily reit units that we have owned and that have been stabilized for at least a full 12 months. secondary market same store communities are generally communities in markets with populations of more than 1 million but less than 1% of the total public multifamily reit units or markets with populations of less than 1 million that we have owned and that have been stabilized for at least a full 12 months. non same store communities and other includes recent acquisitions, communities in development or lease-up, communities that have been identified for disposition, and communities that have undergone a significant casualty loss. also included in non same store communities are non-multifamily activities which represent less than 1% of our portfolio's net operating income. on the first day of each calendar year, we determine the composition of our same store operating segments for that year as well as adjust the previous year, which allows us to evaluate full period-over-period operating comparisons. for financial reporting purposes, the operating results of the post properties assets that we acquired in the merger are within the "non-same store communities and other" reporting segment. the legacy post properties assets will not be eligible to be included in same store segments until january 1, 2018. properties in development or lease-up will generally be added to the same store portfolio on the first day of the calendar year after they have been owned and stabilized for at least a full 12 months. communities are considered stabilized after achieving 90% occupancy for 90 days. communities that have been identified for disposition are excluded from our same store portfolio. during 2016, we added 12 communities to our same store portfolio and moved 13 communities to our non-same store and other segment. in addition, as a result of the merger, we added 58 wholly-owned apartment communities to our non-same store and other segment. a summary of segment operating results for 2016 , 2015 and 2014 is included in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data notes to consolidated financial statements, note 16. additionally, segment operating performance for such years is discussed in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in this annual report on form 10-k. business objectives our primary business objectives are to protect and grow existing property values, to maintain a stable and increasing cash flow that will fund our dividends and distributions through all parts of the real estate investment cycle, and to create shareholder value by growing in a disciplined manner. to achieve these objectives, we intend to continue to pursue the following goals and strategies: effectively and efficiently operate our existing properties with an intense property and asset management focus and a decentralized structure; manage real estate cycles by taking an opportunistic approach to buying, selling, renovating and developing apartment communities; diversify investment capital across both large and secondary markets to achieve a growing and less volatile operating performance; and actively manage our capital structure to help enhance predictability of earnings to fund our dividends and distributions. 2016 highlights completed the merger with post properties independent of the merger, acquired five multifamily communities, totaling 1,626 units, and sold 12 multifamily communities, totaling 3,263 units. 6 completed the construction of two development communities, and had nine communities, totaling 2,816 units, under construction at the end of the year. during the second half of 2016, both fitch ratings and standard &amp; poor's ratings services upgraded maa's senior unsecured rating to bbb+ with a stable outlook. on december 1, 2016, after the close of trading, maa was added to the benchmark s&amp;p 500 index. operations strategy our goal is to generate return on investment collectively and in each apartment community by increasing revenues, controlling operating expenses, maintaining high occupancy levels and reinvesting in the income producing capacity of each community as appropriate. the steps taken to meet these objectives include: providing management information and improved customer services through technology innovations; utilizing systems to enhance property managers' ability to optimize revenue by adjusting rental rates in response to local market conditions and individual unit amenities; implementing programs to control expenses through investment in cost-saving initiatives; analyzing individual asset productivity performances to identify best practices and improvement areas; proactively maintaining the physical condition of each property through ongoing capital investments; improving the curb appeal of the apartment communities through extensive landscaping and exterior improvements, and repositioning apartment communities from time-to-time to enhance or maintain market positions; aggressively managing lease expirations to align with peak leasing traffic patterns and to maximize productivity of property staffing; allocating additional capital, including capital for selective interior and exterior improvements; compensating employees through performance-based compensation and stock ownership programs; and maintaining a hands-on management style and flat organizational structure that emphasizes property level decision making coupled with asset management and senior management's monitoring. we believe that our decentralized operating structure capitalizes on specific market knowledge, provides greater personal accountability than a centralized structure and is beneficial in the acquisition and redevelopment processes. to support this decentralized operational structure, senior and executive management, along with various asset management functions, are proactively involved in supporting and reviewing property management through extensive reporting processes and frequent on-site visits. to maximize the amount of information shared between senior and executive management and the properties on a real time basis, we utilize a web-based property management system. the system contains property and accounting modules that allow for operating efficiencies, continued expense control, provide for various expanded revenue management practices, and improve the support provided to on-site property operations. we use a yield management pricing program that helps our property managers optimize rental revenues, and we also utilize purchase order and accounts payable software to provide improved controls and management information. advances in technologies continue to drive operating efficiencies in our business and help us to better meet the changing needs of our residents. since october 2012, our residents have been utilizing our web-based resident internet portal on our website. our residents have the ability to conduct business with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. in february 2013, we completed the roll out of online leasing renewals throughout our portfolio. as a result of transforming our operations through technology, resident's satisfaction improved, and our operating teams have become more efficient. web-based technologies have also resulted in declining marketing and advertising costs, improved cash management, and better pricing management of our available apartments. acquisition strategy one of our growth strategies is to acquire apartment communities that are located in large or secondary markets primarily throughout the southeast and southwest regions of the united states. acquisitions, along with dispositions as discussed below, help us achieve and maintain our desired product mix, geographic diversification and asset allocation. portfolio growth allows for maximizing the efficiency of the existing management and overhead structure. we have extensive experience in the acquisition of multifamily communities. we will continue to evaluate opportunities that arise, and will utilize this strategy to increase the number of apartment communities in strong and growing markets. 7 the following apartment communities and land parcels, in addition to the 61 properties encompassing 20,818 units, along with 6 land parcels, acquired through the merger, were acquired by us during the year ended december 31, 2016 : multifamily acquisitions market apartment units year built closing date the apartments at cobblestone square fredericksburg, virginia 314 2012 march 1, 2016 residences at fountainhead phoenix, arizona 322 2015 june 30, 2016 yale at 6th houston, texas 352 2015 september 8, 2016 innovation apartment homes greenville, south carolina 336 2015 september 22, 2016 1201 midtown charleston, south carolina 302 2015 december 15, 2016 total multifamily acquisitions 1,626 land acquisitions market acres closing date 1201 midtown charleston, south carolina 4 december 29, 2016 disposition strategy we sell apartment communities and other assets that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when market conditions are favorable, and we redeploy the proceeds from those sales to acquire, develop and redevelop additional apartment communities and to rebalance our portfolio across or within geographic regions. dispositions also allow us to realize a portion of the value created through our investments and provide additional liquidity. we are then able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising additional capital. when we decide to sell a community, we consider current market conditions and generally solicit competing bids from unrelated parties for these individual assets and consider the sales price and other key terms of each proposal. we also consider portfolio dispositions when such a structure is useful to maximize proceeds and efficiency of execution. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , we disposed of 12 multifamily properties totaling 3,263 units, two commercial properties totaling 325,418 square feet, and four land parcels totaling 67 acres. development strategy as another part of our growth strategy, we invest in a limited number of development projects. development activities may be conducted through wholly-owned affiliated companies or through joint ventures with unaffiliated parties. fixed price construction contracts are signed with unrelated parties to minimize construction risk. we typically manage the leasing portion of the project as units become available for lease. we may also engage in limited expansion development opportunities on existing communities in which we typically serve as the developer. while we seek opportunistic new development investments offering attractive long-term investment returns, we intend to maintain a total development commitment that we consider modest in relation to our total balance sheet and investment portfolio. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , we incurred $58.9 million in development costs. 8 the following multifamily projects were under development as of december 31, 2016 (dollars in thousands): project: market total units units completed cost to date budgeted cost estimated cost per unit expected completion post parkside at wade ii raleigh/durham, north carolina 406 263 $ 55,528 $ 58,900 $ 145 2nd quarter 2017 retreat at west creek ii richmond, virginia 82 $ 12,530 $ 15,100 $ 184 2nd quarter 2017 cg at randal lakes phase ii orlando, florida 314 212 $ 35,060 $ 41,300 $ 132 2nd quarter 2017 post afton oaks houston, texas 388 225 $ 76,363 $ 79,900 $ 206 2nd quarter 2017 the denton ii kansas city, missouri-kansas 154 $ 12,526 $ 25,400 $ 165 4th quarter 2017 post south lamar ii austin, texas 344 $ 44,351 $ 65,600 $ 191 4th quarter 2017 post millennium midtown atlanta, georgia 332 $ 44,648 $ 91,100 $ 274 1st quarter 2018 post river north denver, colorado 358 $ 51,391 $ 88,200 $ 246 1st quarter 2018 post centennial park atlanta, georgia 438 $ 34,150 $ 96,300 $ 220 3rd quarter 2018 2,816 700 $ 366,547 $ 561,800 redevelopment strategy in 2005 we began an initiative of upgrading a significant number of our existing apartment communities in key markets across our portfolio. we focus on both interior unit upgrades and exterior amenities above and beyond routine capital upkeep in markets that we believe continue to have the ability to support additional rent growth. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , we renovated 6,812 units and exterior amenities at an average cost of $4,478 per unit. we believe that the rents received on these renovated units were approximately 9.8% above the normal market rate for similar but non-renovated units. capital structure strategy we use a combination of debt and equity sources to fund our business strategy. we maintain a capital structure, focused on maintaining access, flexibility and low costs, that we believe allows us to proactively source potential investment opportunities in the marketplace. we structure our debt maturity schedule to avoid significant exposure in any given year. our primary debt financing strategy is to access the unsecured debt markets to provide our debt capital needs, but we also maintain a limited amount of secured debt and maintain our access to both the secured and unsecured debt markets for maximum flexibility. we also believe that we have significant access to the equity capital markets. at december 31, 2016 , 28.1% of our total market capitalization consisted of borrowings, including 19.8% under our unsecured credit facilities or unsecured senior notes and 8.2% under our secured borrowings. we currently intend to target our total debt, net of cash held, to a range of approximately 32% to 38% of the undepreciated book value of our assets. our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels and our board of directors can modify this policy at any time. we may also issue new equity to maintain our debt within the target range. covenants for our unsecured senior notes limit our debt to undepreciated book value of our assets to 60%. as of december 31, 2016 , our ratio of total debt to total assets was approximately 33.9%. we continuously review opportunities for lowering our cost of capital. we plan to continue using unsecured debt in order to take advantage of the lower cost of capital and flexibility provided by these markets. we will evaluate opportunities to repurchase shares when we believe that our share price is significantly below our net present value. we also look for opportunities where we can acquire or develop apartment communities, selectively funded or partially funded by sales of equity securities, when appropriate opportunities arise. we focus on improving the net present value of our investments by generating cash flows from our portfolio of assets above the estimated total cost of debt and equity capital. we routinely make new investments when we believe it will be accretive to shareholder value over the life of the investments. on december 9, 2015, we entered into distribution agreements with j.p. morgan securities, llc, bmo capital markets corp. and keybanc capital markets inc. to sell up to an aggregate of 4.0 million shares of common stock, from time-to-time in at-the-market offerings or negotiated transactions through controlled equity offering programs, or atms. as of december 31, 2016 , there were 4.0 million shares remaining under the atms. 9 the following are the issuances of common stock which have been made through these types of atm agreements from january 1, 2012, through december 31, 2016 : number of shares sold net proceeds net average sales price gross proceeds gross average sales price 2012 1,155,511 $ 75,863,040 $ 65.65 $ 77,019,121 $ 66.65 2013 365,011 24,753,492 67.82 25,067,009 68.67 2014 2015 2016 total 1,520,522 $ 100,616,532 $ 66.17 $ 102,086,130 $ 67.15 we also have a dividend and distribution reinvestment stock purchase plan, or drspp, which allows for the optional cash purchase of shares of common stock totaling at least $250, but not more than $5,000 in any given month, free of brokerage commissions and charges. we, in our absolute discretion, may grant waivers to allow for optional cash payments in excess of $5,000. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , we issued a total of 1,579 shares through the optional cash purchase feature of the drspp, resulting in net proceeds of $152,463 . share repurchase program on december 8, 2015, maa's board of directors authorized us to repurchase up to 4.0 million shares of maa common stock, which represented approximately 5.3% of maa's common stock outstanding at the time of such authorization. this december 2015 authorization replaced and superseded a previous authorization from 1999, under which approximately 2.1 million shares remained at the time of the december 2015 authorization but through which no shares had been repurchased since april 2001. from time-to-time, we may repurchase shares under the current authorization when we believe that shareholder value would be enhanced. factors affecting this determination include, among others, the share price and expected rates of return. no shares were repurchased from december 8, 2015 through december 31, 2016 under the current authorization. competition all of our apartment communities are located in areas that include other apartment communities. occupancy and rental rates are affected by the number of competitive apartment communities in a particular area. the owners of competing apartment communities may have greater resources than us, and the managers of these apartment communities may have more experience than our management. moreover, single-family rental housing, manufactured housing, condominiums and the new and existing home markets provide housing alternatives to potential residents of apartment communities. competition for new residents is generally intense across all of our markets. some competing communities offer features that our communities do not have. competing communities can use concessions or lower rents to obtain temporary competitive advantages. also, some competing communities are larger or newer than our communities. the competitive position of each community is different depending upon many factors including sub-market supply and demand. in addition, other real estate investors compete with us to acquire existing properties and to develop new properties. these competitors include insurance companies, pension and investment funds, public and private real estate companies, investment companies and other public and private apartment reits, some of which may have greater resources, or lower capital costs, than we do. we believe, however, that we are generally well-positioned to compete effectively for residents and investments. we believe our competitive advantages include: a fully integrated organization with property management, development, redevelopment, acquisition, marketing, sales and financing expertise; scalable operating and support systems, which include automated systems to meet the changing electronic needs of our residents; access to a wide variety of debt and equity capital sources; geographic diversification with a presence in approximately 39 defined metropolitan statistical areas, msas, across the southeast and southwest regions of the united states; and significant presence in many of our major markets that allows us to be a local operating expert. 10 moving forward, we plan to continue to optimize lease management, improve expense control, increase resident retention efforts and align employee incentive plans with our bottom line performance. we believe this plan of operation, coupled with the portfolio's strengths in targeting residents across a geographically diverse platform, should position us for continued operational upside. we also make capital improvements to both our apartment communities and individual units on a regular basis in order to maintain a competitive position in each individual market. environmental matters as a normal part of our apartment community acquisition and development processes, we generally obtain environmental studies of the sites from outside environmental engineering firms. as part of the due diligence process for the merger, we reviewed the existing environmental studies and other related documents outlining potential risk on the properties acquired through the merger. the purpose of these studies is to identify potential sources of contamination at the site and to assess the status of environmental regulatory compliance. these studies generally include historical reviews of the site, reviews of certain public records, preliminary investigations of the site and surrounding properties, inspection for the presence of asbestos, poly-chlorinated biphenyls, or pcbs, and underground storage tanks and the preparation and issuance of written reports. depending on the results of these studies, more invasive procedures, such as soil sampling or ground water analysis, may be performed to investigate potential sources of contamination. these studies must be satisfactorily completed before we take ownership of an acquisition or development property; however, no assurance can be given that the studies or additional documents reviewed identify all significant environmental risks. see "risk factors - risks relating to our real estate investments and our operations - environmental problems are possible and can be costly." the environmental studies we received on properties that we have acquired have not revealed any material environmental liabilities. should any potential environmental risks or conditions be discovered during our due diligence process, the potential costs of remediation will be assessed carefully and factored into the cost of acquisition, assuming the identified risks and factors are deemed to be manageable and within reason. we are not aware of any existing conditions that we believe would be considered a material environmental liability. nevertheless, it is possible that the studies do not reveal all environmental risks or that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are not aware. moreover, no assurance can be given concerning future laws, ordinances or regulations, or the potential introduction of hazardous or toxic substances by neighboring properties or residents. website access to our reports maa and the operating partnership file combined periodic reports with the sec. these filings are available on the sec's website which is http://www.sec.gov. in addition, all filings made by maa and the operating partnership with the sec may be copied or read at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street ne, washington, d.c. 20549. information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. additionally, a copy of this annual report on form 10-k, along with our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to the aforementioned filings, are available on our website free of charge. the filings can be found on the "for investors" page under "sec filings". our website also contains our corporate governance guidelines, code of conduct and the charters of the committees of the board of directors. these items can be found on the "for investors" page in the "governance documents" section under "corporate overview". our website address is http://www.maac.com. reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the site and should not be considered part of this annual report on form 10-k. all of the aforementioned materials may also be obtained free of charge by contacting our legal department, 6584 poplar avenue, memphis, tn 38138. qualification as a real estate investment trust maa has elected to be taxed as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code. to continue to qualify as a reit, maa must continue to meet certain tests which, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our reit taxable income (other than our net capital gains) to our shareholders annually. if maa maintains its qualification as a reit, maa generally will not be subject to u.s. federal income taxes at the corporate level on its net income to the extent it distributes such net income to its shareholders annually. even if maa continues to qualify as a reit, it will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and its property. in 2016 , maa paid total distributions of $3.28 per share of common stock to its shareholders, which was above the 90% reit distribution requirement and was in excess of reit taxable income. 11 inflation we believe that the direct effects of inflation on our operations have been immaterial. while the impact of inflation primarily impacts our results through wage pressures, property taxes, utilities and material costs, substantially all of our leases are for a term of one year or less, which generally enables us to compensate for any inflationary effects by increasing rents on our apartments. although an escalation in energy and food costs could have a negative impact on our residents and their ability to absorb rent increases, we do not believe this has had a material impact on our results for the year ended december 31, 2016 . insurance we carry comprehensive general liability coverage on our communities, with limits of liability we believe are customary within the multi-family apartment industry, to insure against liability claims and related defense costs. we also maintain insurance against the risk of direct physical damage to reimburse us on a replacement cost basis for costs incurred to repair or rebuild each property, including loss of rental income during the reconstruction period. recent developments on february 7, 2017, we paid off the $15.8 million remaining principal balance of the mortgage on the grand cypress apartment community. 12 item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, we have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. if any of these risks occur, our business prospects, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, the market price of our capital stock and the trading price of our debt securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our capital stock or debt securities. risks related to the post properties merger we have incurred and expect to incur substantial expenses related to the merger. we have incurred and expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with the merger and integrating post properties' business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures with ours. there are a large number of systems that are in the process of being integrated, including property management, revenue management, resident payment, credit screening, lease administration, website content management, purchasing, accounting, payroll, fixed assets and financial reporting. moreover, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of these integration expenses. many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. as a result, expenses associated with the merger could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the integration of the businesses. we may be unable to integrate post properties' businesses with ours successfully or realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the merger or do so within the anticipated time frame. because post properties was a public company, we expect to benefit from the elimination of duplicative costs associated with supporting post properties' public company platform and the leveraging of our technology and systems. these savings are expected to be realized upon full integration, which is expected to occur during the next 12 months. however, we are required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of post properties with our business practices and operations. potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the businesses of maa and post properties in a manner that permits the combined corporation to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the merger, which would result in the anticipated benefits of the merger not being realized in the timeframe currently anticipated or at all; the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of several different locations and integrating personnel from the combined corporation; the additional complexities of combining two companies with different histories, cultures, regulatory restrictions, markets and customer bases; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays in completing integration or regulatory conditions associated with the merger; and performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by completing the merger and integrating the combined corporation's operations. for all these reasons, you should be aware that it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of the combined corporation's management, the disruption of the combined corporation's ongoing business or inconsistencies in the combined corporation's operations, services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect the ability of the combined corporation to maintain relationships with tenants, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the combined corporation. we may be unable to retain key employees as a result of the merger the success of the combined corporation after the mergers will depend in part upon its ability to retain key maa employees, including those from post properties. key employees of the combined corporation may depart because of, among other things, issues relating to the combination of two companies, and uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to 13 remain long term with the combined corporation. accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able to retain key employees to the same extent as in the past. the mergers will result in changes to the board of directors and management of the combined corporation that may affect the strategy of the combined corporation as compared to that of maa and post properties independently. the composition of maa's board of directors changed as a result of the merger. maa's board of directors now consists of thirteen members, including all ten directors from maa's board of directors prior to the merger and three directors who were members of the post properties' board of directors prior to the merger. this new composition of the board of directors of maa may affect our business strategy and operating decisions going forward. our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage the expansion of its operations following the merger. we have expanded our operations as a result of the merger and intend to continue to expand our operations through additional acquisitions and development of properties, some of which may involve complex challenges. our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to manage the integration of post properties' operations and our expansion opportunities, each of which may pose substantial challenges for us to integrate new operations into our existing business in an efficient and timely manner, and upon our ability to successfully monitor our operations, costs, regulatory compliance and service quality, and to maintain other necessary internal controls. there is no assurance that our expansion or acquisition and development opportunities will be successful, or that we will realize any operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits from any future acquisitions we may complete. our joint ventures could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on our joint venture partner's financial condition and disputes between us and our joint venture partner. post properties had a joint venture investment that now constitutes a portion of our assets as a result of the merger. in addition, we may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. these joint venture investments involve risks not present with a property wholly owned by us, including that: (i) one or more joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund a share of required capital contributions and we may be responsible to our partners for indemnifiable losses; (ii) one or more joint venture partners may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, creating a conflict of interest; or (iii) disputes between us and one or more of our joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our operating expenses of and divert management time and attention away from our business. the occurrence of one or more of the events described above could cause unanticipated disruption to our operations or unanticipated costs and liabilities to us, which could in turn adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and limit our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. we have a significant amount of indebtedness and may need to incur more in the future. we have substantial indebtedness following completion of the merger. in addition, in connection with executing our business strategies following the merger, we expect to continue to evaluate the possibility of acquiring additional properties and making strategic investments, and we may elect to finance these endeavors by incurring additional indebtedness. the amount of such indebtedness could have material adverse consequences for us, including: reducing our credit ratings and thereby raising its borrowing costs; hindering our ability to adjust to changing market, industry or economic conditions; limiting our ability to access the capital markets to refinance maturing debt or to fund acquisitions or emerging businesses; limiting the amount of free cash flow available for future operations, acquisitions, dividends, stock repurchases or other uses; making us more vulnerable to economic or industry downturns, including interest rate increases; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors. moreover, to respond to competitive challenges, we may be required to raise substantial additional capital to execute our business strategy. our ability to arrange additional financing will depend on, among other factors, our financial position and performance, as well as prevailing market conditions and other factors beyond our control. if we are able to obtain additional 14 financing, our credit ratings could be further adversely affected, which could further raise our borrowing costs and further limit our future access to capital and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. risks related to our real estate investments and our operations developments such as another economic downturn, instability in the banking sector or a negative impact on economic growth resulting from current or future legislation or government initiatives may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the industry in which we operate may be adversely affected by national and international economic conditions. although the u.s. real estate market has recently improved, certain international markets are experiencing increased levels of volatility due to a combination of factors, including, among others, political instability from ongoing geopolitical conflicts, high unemployment rates, fluctuating oil and gas prices and fiscal deficits, and these factors could contribute to another economic downturn in the u.s. if the u.s. experience another downturn in the economy, instability in the banking sector or a negative impact on economic growth resulting from changes in legislation, government tax increases, debt policy or spending restrictions, we may experience adverse effects on our occupancy levels, our rental revenues and the value of our properties, any of which could adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. other economic risks which may adversely affect conditions in the markets in which we operate include the following: local conditions, such as an oversupply of apartments or other housing available for rent, or a reduction in demand for apartments in the area; low mortgage interest rates and home pricing, making alternative housing more affordable; government or builder incentives which enable home buyers to put little or no money down, making alternative housing options more attractive; and regional economic downturns which affect one or more of our geographical markets. failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make payments on our debt and to pay distributions to shareholders and unitholders. our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions depends on our ability to generate cash flow in excess of operating costs and capital expenditure requirements and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. funds from operations and the value of our apartment communities may be insufficient because of factors that are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartments or oversupply of available apartments in our markets, which might adversely affect occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartments; conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use or the increase in the number condominiums and single family homes available for sale; weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rental rates; inability to initially, or subsequently after lease terminations, rent apartments on favorable economic terms; failure of development communities to be completed, if at all, within budget and on a timely basis or to lease up as anticipated; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; changes in laws including, but not limited to, tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; withdrawal of government support of apartment financing through its financial backing of the federal national mortgage association, or the federal home loan mortgage corporation; an uninsured loss, including those resulting from a catastrophic storm, earthquake, or act of terrorism; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase our acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. 15 at times, we have relied on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program, including our existing property developments. while we have sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings, if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to make payments on our debt and to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price or the trading price of our debt securities. we are dependent on a concentration of our investments in a single asset class, making our results of operations more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in the sector or other economic factors. as of december 31, 2016, substantially all of our investments are concentrated in the multifamily sector. as a result, we will be subject to risks inherent in investments in a single type of property. a downturn or slowdown in the demand for multifamily housing may have more pronounced effects on our results of operations or on the value of our assets than if we had diversified our investments into more than one asset class. our operations are concentrated in the southeast and southwest regions of the united states; we are subject to general economic conditions in the regions in which we operate. as of december 31, 2016, approximately 39.7% of our portfolio is located in our top five markets: atlanta, georgia; dallas, texas; austin, texas; charlotte, north carolina; and tampa, florida. in addition, our overall operations are concentrated in the southeast and southwest regions of the united states. our performance could be adversely affected by economic conditions in, and other factors relating to, these geographic areas, including supply and demand for apartments in these areas, zoning and other regulatory conditions and competition from other communities and alternative forms of housing. in particular our performance is disproportionately influenced by job growth and unemployment. to the extent the aforementioned general economic conditions, job growth and unemployment in any of these markets deteriorate or any of these areas experiences natural disasters, the value of the portfolio, our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt could be materially adversely affected. failure to succeed in new markets or sectors may have adverse consequences on our performance. we may make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. our historical experience in our existing markets does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets, should we choose to enter them. we may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including an inability to accurately evaluate local market conditions, to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities, to hire and retain key personnel, and a lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. in addition, we may abandon opportunities to enter new markets that we have begun to explore for any reason and may, as a result, fail to recover expenses already incurred. substantial competition among apartment communities and real estate companies may adversely affect our rental revenues and development and acquisition opportunities. there are numerous other apartment communities and real estate companies, many of which have greater financial and other resources than we have, within the market area of each of our communities that compete with us for residents and development and acquisition opportunities. the number of competitive apartment communities and real estate companies in these areas could have a material effect on (1) our ability to rent our apartments and the rents charged, and (2) development and acquisition opportunities. the activities of these competitors could cause us to pay a higher price for a new property than we otherwise would have paid or may prevent us from purchasing a desired property at all, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. actual or threatened terrorist attacks may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. actual or threatened terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. attacks that directly impact one or more of our apartment communities could significantly affect our ability to operate those communities and thereby impair our ability to achieve our expected results. in addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the u.s. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 16 breaches of our privacy or information security systems through cyber-attacks, cyber-intrusions or otherwise, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or reputation. we face risks associated with security breaches or disruptions, which could result from, among other incidents, cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses or employee error or malfeasance. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber-terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. the protection of customer and employee data and our network systems is critically important to us. our business requires us and our service providers (including service providers engaged in providing web hosting, property management, leasing, accounting and/or payroll software/services) to use and store personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, which may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers, and payment account information. we also rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business. we devote significant resources to protect our customer and employee data and our network systems. however, the security measures put in place by us and our service providers cannot provide absolute security and there can be no assurance that we will not suffer a data security incident in the future, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to sensitive data stored on our systems, that such access will not, whether temporarily or permanently, impact, interfere with or interrupt our operations, or that any such incident will be discovered in a timely manner. our information technology infrastructure could be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management, or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to company data or accounts. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. accordingly, we and our service providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us and our service providers to entirely mitigate this risk. further, in the future, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. any privacy and information incident could compromise our network systems, and the information stored by us could be accessed, misused, publicly disclosed, corrupted, lost, or stolen resulting in fraud or other harm. moreover, if a data security incident or breach affects our systems or results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information, we could be materially damaged and we may be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation, possible liability and remediation costs which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and/or reputation and adversely affect investor confidence. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future acquisitions, and the failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel successfully could create inefficiencies. we have selectively acquired in the past, and if presented with attractive opportunities we intend to selectively acquire in the future, apartment communities that meet our investment criteria. our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; even if we are able to finance the acquisition, cash flow from the acquisition may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments on the acquisition; even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for an apartment community, we may be unable to complete the acquisition after incurring certain acquisition-related costs; we may incur significant costs and divert management attention in connection with the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, including potential acquisitions that we are subsequently unable to complete; when we acquire an apartment community, we may invest additional amounts in it with the intention of increasing profitability, and these additional investments may not produce the anticipated improvements in profitability; we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate acquired apartment communities and new personnel into our existing operations, and the failure to successfully integrate such apartment communities or personnel will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our expected return on our investments and our overall profitability; and we may acquire properties that are subject to liabilities or that have problems relating to environmental condition, state of title, physical condition or compliance with zoning laws, building codes or other legal requirements and in each case, our acquisition may be without any, or with only limited, recourse with respect to unknown liabilities or conditions and we may be obligated to pay substantial sums to settle or cure it, which could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results. 17 we are subject to certain risks associated with selling apartment communities, which could limit our operational and financial flexibility. we periodically dispose of apartment communities that no longer meet our strategic objectives, but adverse market conditions may make it difficult to sell apartment communities like the ones we own. we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. we also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. furthermore, we may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. these conditions may limit our ability to dispose of properties and to change our portfolio promptly in order to meet our strategic objectives, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market value of our securities. we are also subject to the following risks in connection with sales of our apartment communities: a significant portion of the proceeds from our overall property sales may be held by intermediaries in order for some sales to qualify as like-kind exchanges under section 1031 of the code, so that any related capital gain can be deferred for federal income tax purposes. as a result, we may not have immediate access to all of the cash proceeds generated from our property sales. in addition, if a transaction intended to qualify as a section 1031 exchange is later determined to be taxable, we may face adverse consequences, and if the laws applicable to such transactions are amended or repealed, we may not be able to dispose of properties on a tax deferred basis. intermediary agents of section 1031 exchange transactions typically handle large sums of money in trusts. misappropriation of funds by one of these agents could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. additionally, misappropriation of funds could result in the disposal of the property not qualifying for a tax deferred basis and adversely affect our financial condition. it is also possible the qualification of a transaction as a section 1031 exchange could be successfully challenged and determined to be currently taxable. in such case, our taxable income and earnings and profits would increase, which could increase the dividend income to our shareholders by reducing any return of capital they received. in some circumstances, we may be required to pay additional dividends or, in lieu of additional dividends, corporate income tax, possibly including interest and penalties. as a result, we may be required to borrow funds in order to pay additional dividends or taxes and the payment of such taxes could cause us to have less cash available to distribute to our shareholders. in addition, if a section 1031 exchange were later to be determined to be taxable, we may be required to amend our tax returns for the applicable year in question, including any information reports we sent our shareholders; and federal tax laws applicable to reits limit our ability to profit on the sale of communities, and this limitation may prevent us from selling communities when market conditions are favorable. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances in, on, around or under such property. such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. the presence of, or failure to remediate properly, hazardous, toxic substances or petroleum product releases may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell or rent the affected property or to borrow using the property as collateral. persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by the person. certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may also seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials and other hazardous or toxic substances. federal and state laws also regulate the operation and subsequent removal of certain underground storage tanks. in connection with the current or former ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management, development or control of real property, we may be considered an owner or operator of such communities or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines, and claims for injuries to persons and property. our current policy is to obtain a phase i environmental study on each property we seek to acquire, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling, and to proceed accordingly. we cannot assure you, however, that the phase i environmental studies or other environmental studies undertaken with respect to any of our current or future communities will reveal: all or the full extent of potential environmental liabilities; that any prior owner or operator of a property did not create any material environmental condition unknown to us; 18 that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of such communities; or that environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. certain environmental laws impose liability on a previous owner of property to the extent that hazardous or toxic substances were present during the prior ownership period. a transfer of the property does not relieve an owner of such liability. thus, we may have liability with respect to communities previously sold by our predecessors or by us. there have been a number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily communities alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. insurance carriers have reacted to these liability awards by excluding mold related claims from standard policies and pricing mold endorsements separately. we have obtained a separate pollution insurance policy that covers mold-related claims and have adopted programs designed to minimize the existence of mold in any of our communities as well as guidelines for promptly addressing and resolving reports of mold. to the extent not covered by our pollution policy, the presence of mold could expose us to liability from residents and others if property damage, health concerns, or allegations thereof, arise. losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage, which may negatively impact our results of operations and reduce the value of our properties. we carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities and intend to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. we exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. any losses we experience that are not fully covered by our insurance may negatively impact our results of operations and may reduce the value of our properties. increasing real estate taxes, utilities and insurance costs may negatively impact operating results. as a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes, utilities, and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes, utilities costs and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations, which can be widely outside of our control. if the costs associated with real estate taxes, utilities and insurance should rise, without being offset by a corresponding increase in rental rates, our results of operations could be negatively impacted, and our ability to pay our dividends and distributions and senior debt could be affected. compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost. the americans with disabilities act, the fair housing act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require us to modify our existing communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. we cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. development and construction risks could impact our profitability. as of december 31, 2016, we had nine development communities under construction totaling 2,816 units. we had completed 700 units for these development projects as of december 31, 2016. we may make further investments in development communities as the opportunities arise and may do so through joint ventures with unaffiliated parties. our development and construction activities are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs, could delay 19 initial occupancy dates for all or a portion of a development community, and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project for which we are unable to obtain permits or authorizations; we may be unable to obtain financing for development activities under favorable terms, which could cause a delay in construction resulting in increased costs, decreases in revenue, and potentially cause us to abandon the opportunity; yields may be less than anticipated as a result of delays in completing projects, costs that exceed budget and/or higher than expected concessions for lease up and lower rents than pro forma; bankruptcy of developers in our development projects could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the development of our communities and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations; we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring such opportunities; we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule, or incur development or construction costs that exceed our original estimates, and we may be unable to charge rents that would compensate for any increase in such costs; occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, preventing us from meeting our profitability goals for that community; when we sell to third parties communities or properties that we developed or renovated, we may be subject to warranty or construction defects that are uninsured or exceed the limit of our insurance; and our failure to successfully enter into a joint venture agreement may prohibit an otherwise advantageous investment if we cannot raise the money through other means. we may be adversely affected by new federal laws and regulations. the trump administration and congress have enacted, or called for consideration of, proposals relating to a variety of issues, including with respect to financial regulation reform, tax reform, infrastructure spending, climate change, executive compensation and others. we believe that these and other potential proposals could have varying degrees of impact on us ranging from minimal to material. at this time, we are unable to predict with certainty what level of impact specific proposals could have on us. federal rulemaking and administrative efforts that may have an impact on us focus principally on the areas perceived as contributing to the global financial crisis and the most recent economic recession. these initiatives have created a degree of uncertainty regarding the basic rules governing the real estate industry and many other businesses. the federal legislative response in this area culminated in the enactment on july 21, 2010 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, or the dodd-frank act. many of the provisions of the dodd-frank act have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and continue to require rulemaking by regulatory authorities; thus, the impact on us may not be known for an extended period of time. the dodd-frank act, including rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals that are proposed or pending in the united states congress, including the repeal of or additional amendments to the dodd-frank act, may limit our revenues, impose fees or taxes on us, and/or intensify the regulatory framework in which we operate in ways that are not currently identifiable. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure in particular, including certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the possibility of repeal or amendments to the dodd-frank act, have created uncertainty for public companies like ours and could significantly increase the costs and risks associated with accessing the u.s. public markets. because we are committed to maintaining high standards of internal control over financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure, our management team will need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with these evolving standards for public companies. we intend to continue to invest appropriate resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards, and this investment has resulted and will likely continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents. our apartment leases are generally for a term of one year or less. as these leases typically permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our rental revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. 20 risks related to our indebtedness and financing activities our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2016 , the amount of our total debt was approximately $4.50 billion . we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with, among other things, our acquisition, development and operating activities. the degree of our leverage creates significant risks, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our funds from operations to servicing our debt and our cash flow may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution to our shareholders and funds available for acquisitions, development and redevelopment; we may be more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns than our competitors that have less debt; we may be limited in our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions; we may default on our indebtedness, which could result in acceleration of those obligations, assignment of rents and leases and loss of properties to foreclosure; and if one of our subsidiaries defaults, it could trigger a cross default or cross acceleration provision under other indebtedness, which could cause an immediate default or would could allow the lenders to declare all funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable. if any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we may be unable to renew, repay or refinance our outstanding debt which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that either secured or unsecured indebtedness, will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. if we were unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our communities on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the reit distribution requirements of the code. rising interest rates would increase the cost of our variable rate debt. we have incurred and expect in the future to incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. accordingly, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt or cause us to be in default under certain debt instruments. in addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead holders of our shares of common stock to demand a higher yield on their shares from distributions by us, which could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. additionally, on december 14, 2016, the federal reserve reached a decision to raise the federal funds rate by 0.25 points with additional gradual increases anticipated to occur over the next year, subject to ongoing economic uncertainty. this increase in the federal funds rate and any future increases due to other key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate or inflation, may cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. any continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely impact our financial condition. we currently fund the acquisition and development of multifamily apartment communities partially through borrowings (including our revolving credit facility) as well as from other sources such as sales of communities which no longer meet our investment criteria. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness that 21 we may incur, and we may issue more debt in the future. accordingly, subject to limitations on indebtedness set forth in various loan agreements and the indentures governing our senior notes, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt and in an increased risk of default on our obligations. the restrictive terms of certain of our indebtedness may cause acceleration of debt payments. at december 31, 2016 , we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $4.50 billion . our indebtedness contains financial covenants as to interest coverage ratios, maximum secured debt, maintenance of unencumbered asset value, and total debt to gross assets and cross default provisions with other material debt, among others. in the event that an event of default occurs, our lenders may declare borrowings under the respective loan agreements to be due and payable immediately, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. from time-to-time, we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders and pay amounts due on our debt. a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a significant amount of debt outstanding. we are currently assigned corporate credit ratings from each of the three ratings agencies based on their evaluation of our creditworthiness. these ratings are based on a number of factors, which included their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, and sustainability of cash flow and earnings. if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, we could be required to pay additional interest and fees on our outstanding borrowings. in addition, a downgrade may adversely impact our ability to borrow secured and unsecured debt and otherwise limit our access to capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. issuances of additional debt or equity may adversely impact our financial condition. our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. accordingly, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. if we issue additional equity securities to obtain additional financing, the interest of our existing shareholders could be diluted. risks related to maa's organization and ownership of its stock maa's ownership limit restricts the transferability of its capital stock. maa's charter limits ownership of its capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of its capital stock, both common and preferred, unless approved by its board of directors. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in it losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of its shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the code, owning 50% or more of its shares. if you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, maa: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on its books; 22 may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; will consider the shares held in trust for its benefit; and will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any profit to maa, or maa will redeem the shares. if maa redeems the shares, you will be paid a price equal to the lesser of: the principal price paid for the shares by the holder, a price per share equal to the market price (as determined in the manner set forth in its charter) of the applicable capital stock, the market price (as so determined) on the date such holder would, but for the restrictions on transfers set forth in its charter, be deemed to have acquired ownership of the shares and the maximum price allowed under tennessee greenmail act (such price being the average of the highest and lowest closing market price for the shares during the 30 trading days preceding the purchase of such shares or, if the holder of such shares has commenced a tender offer or has announced an intention to seek control of maa, during the 30 trading days preceding the commencement of such tender offer or the making of such announcement). the redemption price may be paid, at maa's option, by delivering one common unit (subject to adjustment from time to time in the event of, among other things, stock splits, stock dividends, or recapitalizations affecting its common stock or certain mergers, consolidations or asset transfers by maa) issued by the operating partnership for each excess share being redeemed. if you acquire shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: you may lose your power to dispose of the shares; you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. future offerings of debt or equity securities, which may rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. if we decide to issue additional debt securities in the future, which would rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. additionally, any equity securities or convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. we and, indirectly, our shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of its future offerings. thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings. the form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations though our board of directors has a history of declaring dividends in advance of the quarter they are paid, the form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions will be declared, and standing practice changed, at the discretion of the board of directors. the form, timing and/or amount of dividend distributions will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the reit provisions of the code and other factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. our board of directors may modify our dividend policy from time to time. provisions of maa's charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of maa. ownership limit the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of maa by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. 23 preferred stock maa's charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, 868,000 of which have been designated as maa series i preferred stock. in addition to the maa series i preferred stock, the board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any other series of preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock, including the maa series i preferred stock, could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of maa, even if a change in control were in maa shareholders' best interests. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 868,000 shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding. tennessee anti-takeover statutes as a tennessee corporation, maa is subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire maa and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if maa's acquisition would be in maa shareholders' best interests. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common stock. the market price of shares of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's shares may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common stock to go down. in addition, although maa's common stock is listed on the new york stock exchange, or nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's common stock may be lower than the trading volume for other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of maa's common stock. changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to our results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of maa's common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit's equity securities is based primarily upon the market's perception of the reit's growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. for that reason, maa's common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of maa's common stock. in addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to pay distributions to maa's shareholders. our failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of maa's stock. the stock markets, including nyse, on which maa lists its common stock, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. as a result, the market price of maa's common stock could be similarly volatile, and investors in maa's common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. among the market conditions that may affect the market price of maa's publicly traded securities are the following: our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly and annual operating results; changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; additions and departures of key personnel; inability to access the capital markets; strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, dispositions, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; the issuance of additional shares of maa's common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, including under maa's at-the-market offering programs; the reputation of reits generally and the reputation of reits with portfolios similar to ours; the attractiveness of the securities of reits in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies); 24 an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for maa's common stock; the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; speculation in the press or investment community; actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds; changes in accounting principles; terrorist acts; and general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. risks related to the operating partnership's organization and ownership of op units the operating partnership's existing unitholders have limited approval rights, which may prevent the operating partnership's sole general partner, maa, from completing a change of control transaction that may be in the best interests of all unitholders and of all the shareholders of maa. maa may not engage in a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the operating partnership, dissolve the operating partnership or, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, take any action that would result in any unitholder realizing taxable gain, without the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding op units held by holders other than maa or its affiliates, or class a op units. the right of the holders of our class a op units to vote on these transactions could limit maa's ability to complete a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interest of all of our unitholders and all shareholders of maa. in certain circumstances, certain of the operating partnership's unitholders must approve the operating partnership's sale of certain properties contributed by the unitholders. in certain circumstances as detailed in the partnership agreement of the operating partnership, the operating partnership may not sell or otherwise transfer certain properties unless a specified percentage of the limited partners who were partners in the limited partnership holding such properties at the time of its acquisition by us approves such sale or transfer. the exercise of these approval rights by the operating partnership's unitholders could delay or prevent the operating partnership from completing a transaction that may be in the best interest of all of the operating partnership's unitholders and all shareholders of maa. maa, its officers and directors have substantial influence over the operating partnership's affairs. maa, as the operating partnership's sole general partner and acting through its officers and directors, has a substantial influence on the operating partnership's affairs. maa, its officers and directors could exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interest of the operating partnership's unitholders. also, maa owns approximately 96.4% of the op units and as such, will have substantial influence on the outcome of substantially all matters submitted to the operating partnership's unitholders for approval. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common stock, which would affect the redemption price of the op units. the market price of shares of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's common stock may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common stock to go down, which would reduce the price received upon redemption of any op units, or if maa so elects, the value of maa's common stock received in lieu of cash upon redemption of such op units. in addition, although maa's common stock is listed on the nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's shares may be lower than the trading volume for companies in other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares. 25 insufficient cash flow from operations or a decline in the market price of maa's common stock may reduce the amount of cash available to the operating partnership to meet its obligations. t he operating partnership is subject to the risk that its cash flow will be insufficient to service its debt and to pay distributions to its unitholders, which may cause maa to not have the funds to pay distributions to its shareholders. maa's failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future results of operations and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of its shares and thus potentially reduce maa's ability to contribute funds from issuances down to the operating partnership, resulting in a lower level of cash available for investment or to service our debt or to make distributions to the operating partnership's unitholders. risks related to tax laws failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders. if maa fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, maa will be subject to federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax) without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction applicable to reits. in addition, unless maa is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, maa would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which it loses its qualification. the additional tax liability resulting from the failure to qualify as a reit would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds available for distribution to maa's shareholders. maa's failure to qualify as a reit also could impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of maa's stock. maa believes that it is organized and qualified as a reit, and maa intends to operate in a manner that will allow it to continue to qualify as a reit. maa cannot assure you, however, that it is qualified or will remain qualified as a reit. this is because qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within maa's control. in addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of qualification as a reit. even if maa qualifies as a reit, maa will be subject to various federal, state and local taxes, including property taxes and income taxes on taxable income that maa does not timely distribute to its shareholders. in addition, maa may hold certain assets and engage in certain activities that a reit could not engage in directly through its taxable reit subsidiaries, or trss, and those trss will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on their taxable incomes without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction applicable to reits. furthermore, we have a subsidiary that has elected to be treated as a reit, and if our subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, it is possible that we also would fail to qualify as a reit unless we (or the subsidiary reit) could qualify for certain relief provisions. the qualification of our subsidiary reit as a reit will depend on satisfaction, on an annual or quarterly basis, of numerous requirements set forth in highly technical and complex provisions of the code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. a determination as to whether such requirements are satisfied involves various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. the fact that we hold substantially all of our assets through our operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements for us. no assurance can be given that our subsidiary reit will qualify as a reit for any particular year. if colonial or post properties' failed to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we would incur adverse tax consequences and our consolidated results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. prior to their respective mergers with maa, each of colonial and post properties operated in a manner intended to allow it to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if either colonial or post properties (each, a merged reit ) is determined to have lost its reit status at any time prior to its merger with maa, maa would be subject to serious adverse tax consequences, including: 26 maa would be required to pay u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates on the taxable income of such merged reit without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction for the taxable years that the merged reit did not qualify as a reit and for which the statute of limitations period remains open; and maa would be required to pay any federal alternative minimum tax liability of the merged reit and any applicable state and local tax liability, in each case, for all taxable years that remain open under the applicable statute of limitations periods. maa is liable for any tax liability of a merged reit with respect to any periods prior to the merger of such merged reit with maa. if a merged reit failed to qualify as a reit, then in the event of a taxable disposition by maa of an asset previously held by the merged reit during a specified period of up to 10 years following the merger of the merged reit with maa, maa will be subject to corporate income tax with respect to any built-in gain inherent in such asset as of the date of such merger. in addition, unless an applicable statutory relief provision applies, if a merged reit failed to qualify as a reit for a taxable year, then the merged reit would not have been entitled to re-elect to be taxed as a reit until the fifth taxable year following the year during which it was disqualified. furthermore, if both maa and a merged reit were investment companies under the investment company rules set forth in section 368 of the code at the time of the merger of maa and such merged reit, the failure of maa or such merged reit to have qualified as a reit at the time of their merger could result in such merger being treated as taxable for federal income tax purposes. as a result of all these factors, the failure by a merged reit to have qualified as a reit could jeopardize maa's qualification as a reit and require the operating partnership to provide material amounts of cash to maa to satisfy maa's additional tax liabilities and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on maa's financial condition, results of operations, business and prospects and on maa's ability to make payments on its indebtedness or distributions to its shareholders. the operating partnership may fail to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. we believe that the operating partnership qualifies, and has so qualified since its formation, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and not as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. no assurance can be provided, however, that the internal revenue service, or irs, will not challenge the treatment of the operating partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating the operating partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then the taxable income of the operating partnership would be taxable at regular corporate income tax rates. in addition, the treatment of the operating partnership as a corporation would cause maa to fail to qualify as a reit. see failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders above. certain dispositions of property by us may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a 100% penalty tax on gain attributable to the disposition. any gain resulting from a transfer of property that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated for federal income tax purposes as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property would be considered prohibited transactions. whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. as such, the irs may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. if the irs were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes. a safe harbor to the characterization of the disposition of property as a prohibited transaction and the resulting imposition of the 100% tax is available; however, we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply with such safe harbor in connection with any property dispositions. recent tax legislation impacts certain u.s. federal income tax rules applicable to reits and could adversely affect our current tax positions. the protecting americans from tax hikes act of 2015 (the path act ) changed certain aspects of the u.s. federal income tax rules applicable to us. the path act is the most recent example of changes to the reit rules, and additional legislative changes may occur that could adversely affect our current tax positions. the path act modifies various rules that apply to our ownership of, and business relationship with, our trss and reduces the maximum allowable value of our assets attributable to trss from 25% to 20% which could impact our ability to enter into future investments. the path act also makes multiple changes related to the foreign investment in real property tax act, expands prohibited transaction safe harbors and qualifying hedges, and repeals the preferential dividend rule for public reits previously applicable to us. lastly, the path 27 act adjusts the way we may calculate certain earnings and profits calculations to avoid double taxation at the stockholder level, and expands the types of qualifying assets and income for purposes of the reit requirements. the provisions enacted by the path act could result in changes in our tax positions or investments, and future legislative changes related to those rules described above could have a materially adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk includes risks that arise from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices and other market changes that affect market sensitive instruments. our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates on our borrowings. at december 31, 2016 , 28.1% of our total capitalization consisted of borrowings. our interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps and caps, which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix or cap the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. we use our best efforts to have our credit facilities, or tranches thereof, mature across multiple years, which we believe limits our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. at december 31, 2016, approximately 86.7% of our outstanding debt was subject to fixed or capped rates after considering related derivative instruments we regularly review interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. 60 the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for our interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in thousands). 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 total thereafter total fair value long-term debt fixed rate $ 223,625 $ 157,129 $ 726,378 $ 155,600 $ 190,171 $ 1,548,075 $ 3,000,978 $ 3,127,719 average interest rate 4.41 % 4.04 % 4.28 % 4.41 % 5.21 % 3.93 % 4.16 % variable rate (1) $ 80,010 $ 329,825 $ (457 ) $ 639,624 $ 149,770 $ 299,966 $ 1,498,738 $ 1,511,286 average interest rate 1.08 % 1.47 % 1.57 % 1.63 % 1.57 % 1.57 % 1.55 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ 300,000 $ 250,000 $ $ 300,000 $ $ $ 850,000 $ (5,198 ) average pay rate 1.08 % 2.00 % % % % % 1.68 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 25,000 $ 25,000 $ $ $ $ $ 50,000 $ average pay rate 4.50 % 4.50 % % % % % 4.50 % (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements.risk factors" and, from time to time, in other reports we file with the securities and exchange commission, or the sec, or in other documents that we publicly disseminate. new factors may also emerge from time to time that could have a material adverse effect on our business. except as otherwise required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date on which this annual report on form 10-k is filed. item 1. business overview maa is a multifamily focused, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or reit. we own, operate, acquire and selectively develop apartment communities primarily located in the southeast and southwest regions of the united states. as of december 31, 2017 , activities include full ownership and operation of 301 multifamily properties, which includes commercial space at certain properties, four additional commercial properties, and a partial ownership in one multifamily property. these properties are located in alabama, arizona, arkansas, colorado, florida, georgia, kansas, kentucky, maryland, mississippi, missouri, nevada, north carolina, south carolina, tennessee, texas, virginia and washington, d.c. as of december 31, 2017 , we maintained full or partial ownership in the following properties: multifamily: consolidated properties units unconsolidated properties units total properties total units 301 99,523 1 269 302 99,792 commercial: consolidated properties sq. ft. (1) unconsolidated properties sq. ft. total properties total sq. ft. 4 231,821 4 231,821 (1) excludes commercial space located at our multifamily communities, which totals approximately 620,000 square feet of gross leasable space. our business is conducted principally through the operating partnership. maa is the sole general partner of the operating partnership, holding 113,643,166 op units, comprising a 96.4% partnership interest in the operating partnership as of december 31, 2017 . maa and maalp were formed in tennessee in 1993. as of december 31, 2017 , we had 2,419 full time employees and 45 part-time employees. 3 business objectives our primary business objectives are to protect and grow existing property values, to maintain a stable and increasing cash flow that will fund our dividends and distributions through all parts of the real estate investment cycle, and to create shareholder value by growing in a disciplined manner. to achieve these objectives, we intend to continue to pursue the following goals and strategies: effectively and efficiently operate our existing properties with an intense property and asset management focus and a decentralized structure; manage real estate cycles by taking an opportunistic approach to buying, selling, developing and renovating apartment communities; diversify investment capital across markets in which we operate to achieve a balanced portfolio and minimize volatile operating performance; and actively manage our capital structure to enhance predictability of earnings to fund our dividends and distributions. operations our goal is to generate return on investment collectively and in each apartment community by increasing revenues, controlling operating expenses, maintaining high occupancy levels and reinvesting in the income producing capacity of each apartment community as appropriate. the steps taken to meet these objectives include: providing management information and improved customer services through technology innovations; utilizing systems to enhance property managers' ability to optimize revenue by adjusting rental rates in response to local market conditions and individual unit amenities; implementing programs to control expenses through investment in cost-saving initiatives; analyzing individual asset productivity performances to identify best practices and improvement areas; maintaining the physical condition of each property through ongoing capital investments; improving the "curb appeal" of the apartment communities through extensive landscaping and exterior improvements, and repositioning apartment communities from time-to-time to enhance or maintain market positions; managing lease expirations to align with peak leasing traffic patterns and to maximize productivity of property staffing; allocating additional capital, including capital for selective interior and exterior improvements; compensating employees through performance-based compensation and stock ownership programs; and maintaining a hands-on management style and "flat" organizational structure that emphasizes property level decision making coupled with asset management and senior management's monitoring. we believe that our decentralized operating structure capitalizes on specific market knowledge, provides greater personal accountability than a centralized structure and is beneficial in the acquisition and redevelopment processes. to support this decentralized operational structure, senior management, along with various asset management functions, are proactively involved in supporting and reviewing property management through extensive reporting processes and frequent on-site visits. to maximize the amount of information shared between senior management and the properties on a real-time basis, we utilize a web-based property management system. the system contains property and accounting modules that allow for operating efficiencies and continued expense control, provide for various expanded revenue management practices, and improve the support provided to on-site property operations. we use a "yield management" pricing program that helps our property managers optimize rental revenues, and we also utilize purchase order and accounts payable software to provide improved controls and management information. investment in technology continues to drive operating efficiencies in our business and help us to better meet the changing needs of our residents. our residents have the ability to conduct business with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and complete online leasing applications and renewals via the use of our web-based resident internet portal. interacting with our residents through such technology has allowed us to improve resident satisfaction ratings and increase the efficiency of our operating teams. we report in the following operating segments: large market same store communities are generally communities in markets with a population of at least 1 million and at least 1% of the total public multifamily reit units that we have owned and have been stabilized for at least a full 12 months. 4 secondary market same store communities are generally communities in markets with populations of more than 1 million but less than 1% of the total public multifamily reit units or markets with populations of less than 1 million that we have owned and have been stabilized for at least a full 12 months. non-same store communities and other includes recent acquisitions, communities in development or lease-up, communities that have been identified for disposition, and communities that have undergone a significant casualty loss. also included in non-same store communities are non-multifamily activities. on the first day of each calendar year, we determine the composition of our same store operating segments for that year as well as adjust the previous year, which allows us to evaluate full period-over-period operating comparisons. an apartment community in development or lease-up is added to the same store portfolio on the first day of the calendar year after it has been owned and stabilized for at least a full 12 months. communities are considered stabilized after achieving 90% occupancy for 90 days . communities that have been identified for disposition are excluded from the same store portfolio. all properties acquired from post properties in the merger remained in the non-same store and other operating segment during 2017, as the properties were recent acquisitions and had not been owned and stabilized for at least 12 months as of january 1, 2017. for additional information regarding our operating segments, see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. acquisitions one of our growth strategies is to acquire apartment communities that are located in various large or secondary markets primarily throughout the southeast and southwest regions of the united states. acquisitions, along with dispositions, help us achieve and maintain our desired product mix, geographic diversification and asset allocation. portfolio growth allows for maximizing the efficiency of the existing management and overhead structure. we have extensive experience in the acquisition of multifamily communities. we will continue to evaluate opportunities that arise, and we will utilize this strategy to increase our number of apartment communities in strong and growing markets. we acquired the following apartment communities during the year ended december 31, 2017 : community market units closing date charlotte at midtown nashville, tn 279 march 16, 2017 acklen west end nashville, tn 320 december 28, 2017 dispositions we sell apartment communities and other assets that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when market conditions are favorable, and we redeploy the proceeds from those sales to acquire, develop and redevelop additional apartment communities and rebalance our portfolio across or within geographic regions. dispositions also allow us to realize a portion of the value created through our investments and provide additional liquidity. we are then able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising additional capital. in deciding to sell an apartment community, we consider current market conditions and generally solicit competing bids from unrelated parties for these individual assets, considering the sales price and other key terms of each proposal. we also consider portfolio dispositions when such a structure is useful to maximize proceeds and efficiency of execution. during the year ended december 31, 2017 , we disposed of five multifamily properties totaling 1,760 units and four land parcels totaling approximately 23 acres. development as another part of our growth strategy, we invest in a limited number of development projects. development activities may be conducted through wholly-owned affiliated companies or through joint ventures with unaffiliated parties. fixed price construction contracts are signed with unrelated parties to minimize construction risk. we typically manage the leasing portion of the project as units become available for lease. we may also engage in limited expansion development opportunities on existing communities in which we typically serve as the developer. while we seek opportunistic new development investments offering attractive long-term investment returns, we intend to maintain a total development commitment that we consider modest in relation to our total balance sheet and investment portfolio. during the year ended december 31, 2017 , we incurred $170.1 million in development costs and completed 7 development projects. 5 the following multifamily projects were under development as of december 31, 2017 (dollars in thousands): project: market total units units completed cost to date budgeted cost estimated cost per unit expected completion post river north denver, co 359 240 $81,195 $88,200 $246 1st quarter 2018 1201 midtown ii charleston, sc 140 12,624 29,500 211 4th quarter 2018 post centennial park atlanta, ga 438 73,837 96,300 220 3rd quarter 2018 937 240 $167,656 $214,000 redevelopment we focus on both interior unit upgrades and exterior amenities above and beyond routine capital upkeep on existing apartment communities across our portfolio that we believe have the ability to support additional rent growth. during the year ended december 31, 2017 , we renovated 8,375 units at an average cost of $5,463 per unit, achieving average rental rate increases of 8.8% above the normal market rate for similar but non-renovated units. capital structure we use a combination of debt and equity sources to fund our business objectives. we maintain a capital structure, focused on maintaining access, flexibility and low costs, that we believe allows us to proactively source potential investment opportunities in the marketplace. we structure our debt maturities to avoid disproportionate exposure in any given year. our primary debt financing strategy is to access the unsecured debt markets to provide our debt capital needs, but we also maintain a limited amount of secured debt and maintain our access to both the secured and unsecured debt markets for maximum flexibility. we also believe that we have significant access to the equity capital markets. at december 31, 2017 , 27.5% of our total market capitalization consisted of debt borrowings, including 21.5% under unsecured credit facilities and unsecured senior notes and 6.0% under secured borrowings. we currently intend to target our total debt, net of cash held, to a range of approximately 32% to 38% of the undepreciated book value of our assets. our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels and our board of directors can modify this policy at any time. we may issue new equity to maintain our debt within the target range. covenants for our unsecured senior notes limit our debt to undepreciated book value of our assets to 60%. as of december 31, 2017 , our ratio of total debt to our adjusted total assets (as defined in the covenants for the bonds issued by maalp) was approximately 33.2% . we continuously review opportunities for lowering our cost of capital. we plan to continue using unsecured debt in order to take advantage of the lower cost of capital and flexibility provided by these markets. we will evaluate opportunities to repurchase shares when we believe that our share price is significantly below our net present value. we also look for opportunities where we can acquire or develop apartment communities, selectively funded or partially funded by sales of equity securities, when appropriate opportunities arise. we focus on improving the net present value of our investments by generating cash flows from our portfolio of assets above the estimated total cost of debt and equity capital. we routinely make new investments when we believe it will be accretive to shareholder value over the life of the investments. competition all of our apartment communities are located in areas that include other apartment communities. occupancy and rental rates are affected by the number of competitive apartment communities in a particular area. the owners of competing apartment communities may have greater resources than us, and the managers of these apartment communities may have more experience than our management. moreover, single-family rental housing, manufactured housing, condominiums and the new and existing home markets provide housing alternatives to potential residents of apartment communities. competition for new residents is generally intense across all of our markets. some competing communities offer features that our communities do not have. competing communities can use concessions or lower rents to obtain temporary competitive advantages. also, some competing communities are larger or newer than our communities. the competitive position of each community is different depending upon many factors including sub-market supply and demand. in addition, other real estate investors compete with us to acquire existing properties and to develop new properties. these competitors include insurance companies, pension and investment funds, public and private real estate companies, investment companies and other public and private apartment reits, some of which may have greater resources, or lower capital costs, than we do. 6 we believe, however, that we are generally well-positioned to compete effectively for residents and investments. we believe our competitive advantages include: a fully integrated organization with property management, development, redevelopment, acquisition, marketing, sales and financing expertise; scalable operating and support systems, which include automated systems to meet the changing technological needs of our residents; access to a wide variety of debt and equity capital sources; geographic diversification with a presence in approximately 37 defined metropolitan statistical areas, or msas, across the southeast and southwest regions of the united states; and significant presence in many of our major markets that allows us to be a local operating expert. moving forward, we plan to continue to optimize lease expiration management, improve expense control, increase resident retention efforts and align employee incentive plans with our performance. we believe this plan of operation, coupled with the portfolio's strengths in targeting residents across a geographically diverse platform, should position us for continued operational upside. we also make capital improvements to both our apartment communities and individual units on a regular basis in order to maintain a competitive position in each individual market. environmental matters as a part of our standard apartment community acquisition and development processes, we generally obtain environmental studies of the sites from outside environmental engineering firms. the purpose of these studies is to identify potential sources of contamination at the site and to assess the status of environmental regulatory compliance. these studies generally include historical reviews of the site, reviews of certain public records, preliminary investigations of the site and surrounding properties, inspection for the presence of asbestos, poly-chlorinated biphenyls, or pcbs, and underground storage tanks and the preparation and issuance of written reports. depending on the results of these studies, more invasive procedures, such as soil sampling or ground water analysis, may be performed to investigate potential sources of contamination. these studies must be satisfactorily completed before we take ownership of an acquisition or development property; however, no assurance can be given that the studies or additional documents reviewed identify all significant environmental risks. see "risk factors - risks relating to our real estate investments and our operations - environmental problems are possible and can be costly." the environmental studies we received on properties that we have acquired have not revealed any material environmental liabilities. should any potential environmental risks or conditions be discovered during our due diligence process, the potential costs of remediation will be assessed carefully and factored into the cost of acquisition, assuming the identified risks and factors are deemed to be manageable and within reason. we are not aware of any existing conditions that we believe would be considered a material environmental liability. nevertheless, it is possible that the studies do not reveal all environmental risks or that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are not aware. moreover, no assurance can be given concerning future laws, ordinances or regulations, or the potential introduction of hazardous or toxic substances by neighboring properties or residents. merger of maa and post properties on december 1, 2016, maa completed its merger with post properties. pursuant to the agreement and plan of merger, or the merger agreement, post properties merged with and into maa, with maa continuing as the surviving corporation, or the parent merger, and post lp merged with and into maalp, with maalp continuing as the surviving entity, or the partnership merger. we refer to the parent merger, together with the partnership merger, as the merger in this annual report on form 10-k. the consolidated net assets and results of operations of post properties are included in our consolidated financial statements from and after the closing date of the merger. the 2016 and 2017 operating results of the post properties assets we acquired in the merger are included in our non-same store and other operating segment, as those assets were not eligible to be included in our same store segments until january 1, 2018. qualification as a real estate investment trust maa has elected to be taxed as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code. to continue to qualify as a reit, maa must continue to meet certain tests which, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our reit taxable income (other than our net capital gains) to our shareholders annually. if maa maintains its qualification as a reit, maa generally will not be subject to u.s. federal income taxes at the corporate level on its net income 7 to the extent it distributes such net income to its shareholders annually. even if maa continues to qualify as a reit, it will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and its property. in 2017 , maa paid total distributions of $3.48 per share of common stock to its shareholders, which was above the 90% reit distribution requirement and was in excess of reit taxable income. recent developments on february 1, 2018, the company retired a $38.5 million mortgage associated with highlands of west village. the mortgage was scheduled to mature in may 2018. website access to our reports maa and the operating partnership file combined periodic reports with the sec. our annual reports on form 10-k, along with our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports, are available on our website at www.maac.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the site and should not be considered part of this annual report on form 10-k. all of the aforementioned materials may also be obtained free of charge by contacting our legal department, 6584 poplar avenue, memphis, tn 38138. item 1a. risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, we have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impact our business operations. if any of these risks occur, our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, the market price of our capital stock and the trading price of our debt securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our capital stock or debt securities. risks related to our real estate investments and our operations developments such as an economic downturn, instability in the banking sector or a negative impact on economic growth resulting from current or future legislation or government initiatives may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the industry in which we operate may be adversely affected by national and international economic conditions. although the u.s. real estate market has recently improved, certain international markets are experiencing increased levels of volatility due to a combination of factors, including, among others, political instability from ongoing geopolitical conflicts, high unemployment rates, fluctuating oil and gas prices and fiscal deficits, and these factors could contribute to an economic downturn in the u.s. if the u.s. experiences a downturn in the economy, instability in the banking sector or a negative impact on economic growth resulting from changes in legislation, government tax increases, debt policy or spending restrictions, we may experience adverse effects on our occupancy levels, our rental revenues and the value of our properties, any of which could adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. other economic risks which may adversely affect conditions in the markets in which we operate include the following: local conditions, such as an oversupply of apartments or other housing available for rent, or a reduction in demand for apartments in the area; low mortgage interest rates and home pricing, making alternative housing more affordable; government or builder incentives with respect to home ownership, making alternative housing options more attractive; and regional economic downturns which affect one or more of our geographical markets. failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions depends on our ability to generate cash flow in excess of operating costs and capital expenditure requirements and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity 8 financing. our funds from operations may be insufficient because of factors that are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartments or oversupply of available apartments in our markets, which might adversely affect occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartments; conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use or the increase in the number condominiums and single family homes available for sale; weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rental rates; inability to initially, or subsequently after lease terminations, rent apartments on favorable economic terms; failure of development communities to be completed within budget and on a timely basis or to lease-up as anticipated, if at all; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; changes in laws including, but not limited to, tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; withdrawal of government support of apartment financing through its financial backing of the federal national mortgage association, or fannie mae, or the federal home loan mortgage corporation, or freddie mac; an uninsured loss, including those resulting from a catastrophic storm, earthquake, or act of terrorism; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase our acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, we have relied on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program, including our existing property developments. while we have sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings, if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to make payments on our debt and to make distributions at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price or the trading price of our debt securities. we are dependent on a concentration of our investments in a single asset class, making our results of operations more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in the sector or other economic factors. as of december 31, 2017 , substantially all of our investments are concentrated in the multifamily sector. as a result, we will be subject to risks inherent in investments in a single type of property. a downturn or slowdown in the demand for multifamily housing may have more pronounced effects on our results of operations or on the value of our assets than if we had diversified our investments into more than one asset class. our operations are concentrated in the southeast and southwest regions of the united states; we are subject to general economic conditions in the regions in which we operate. as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 39.4% of our portfolio is located in our top five markets: atlanta, georgia; dallas, texas; austin, texas; charlotte, north carolina; and orlando, florida. in addition, our overall operations are concentrated in the southeast and southwest regions of the united states. our performance could be adversely affected by economic conditions in, and other factors relating to, these geographic areas, including supply and demand for apartments in these areas, zoning and other regulatory conditions and competition from other communities and alternative forms of housing. in particular our performance is disproportionately influenced by job growth and unemployment. to the extent the economic conditions, job growth and unemployment in any of these markets deteriorate or any of these areas experiences natural disasters, the value of our portfolio, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions could be adversely affected. failure to succeed in new markets or sectors may have adverse consequences on our performance. we may make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. our historical experience in our existing markets does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets, should we 9 choose to enter them. we may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including an inability to accurately evaluate local market conditions, to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities, to hire and retain key personnel, and a lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. in addition, we may abandon opportunities to enter new markets that we have begun to explore for any reason and may, as a result, fail to recover expenses already incurred. substantial competition among apartment communities and real estate companies may adversely affect our revenues and development and acquisition opportunities. there are numerous other apartment communities and real estate companies, some of which may have greater financial and other resources than we have, within the market area of each of our communities that compete with us for residents and development and acquisition opportunities. the number of competitive apartment communities and real estate companies in these areas could have a material effect on (1) our ability to rent our apartments and generate revenues, and (2) development and acquisition opportunities. the activities of these competitors could cause us to pay a higher price for a new property than we otherwise would have paid or may prevent us from purchasing a desired property at all, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and make distributions. actual or threatened terrorist attacks may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results and could decrease the value of our assets. actual or threatened terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. attacks that directly impact one or more of our apartment communities could significantly affect our ability to operate those communities and thereby impair our ability to achieve our expected results. further, our insurance coverage may not cover all losses caused by a terrorist attack. in addition, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the u.s. economy could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we rely on information technology systems in our operations, and any breach or security failure of those systems could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. we rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store information and to manage or support our business processes. we maintain confidential financial and business information regarding us and persons with which we do business on our information technology systems. we also collect and hold personally identifiable information of our residents and prospective residents in connection with our leasing and property management activities, and we collect and hold personally identifiable information of our employees in connection with their employment. in addition, we engage third party service providers that may collect and hold personally identifiable information of our residents, prospective residents and employees in connection with providing business services to us, including web hosting, property management, leasing, accounting and payroll services. the protection of the information technology systems on which we rely is critically important to us. we take steps, and generally require third party service providers to take steps, to protect the security of the information maintained in our and our service providers' information technology systems, including the use of systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing of the information. however, we face risks associated with breaches or security failures of the information technology systems on which we rely, which could result from, among other incidents, cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses or employee error or misconduct. this risk of a breach or security failure, particularly through cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusion, has generally increased due to the rise in new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of the perpetrators of attempted attacks and intrusions. the security measures put in place by us and our service providers cannot provide absolute security and there can be no assurance that we or our service providers will not suffer a data security incident in the future, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to sensitive information stored on our or our service providers' systems, that such access will not, whether temporarily or permanently, impact, interfere with or interrupt our operations, or that any such incident will be discovered in a timely manner. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable as the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed to not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. accordingly, we and our providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures. further, in the future, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance information security measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. a data security incident could compromise our or our service providers' information technology systems, and the information stored by us or our service providers, including personally identifiable information of residents, prospective 10 residents and employees, could be accessed, misused, publicly disclosed, corrupted, lost or stolen. any failure to prevent a breach or a security failure of our or our service providers' information technology systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation and brand, damage our competitive position, make it difficult for us to attract and retain residents, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of past or future apartment community acquisitions, and the failure to integrate acquired apartment communities and new personnel successfully could create inefficiencies. we have acquired in the past, and if presented with attractive opportunities we intend to acquire in the future, apartment communities that meet our investment criteria. our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; even if we are able to finance the acquisition, cash flow from the acquisition may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments on the acquisition; even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for an apartment community, we may be unable to complete the acquisition after incurring certain acquisition-related costs; we may incur significant costs and divert management's attention in connection with the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, including potential acquisitions that we are subsequently unable to complete; when we acquire an apartment community, we may invest additional amounts in it with the intention of increasing profitability, and these additional investments may not produce the anticipated improvements in profitability; we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate acquired apartment communities and new personnel into our existing operations, and the failure to successfully integrate such apartment communities or personnel will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our expected return on our investments and our overall profitability; and we may acquire properties that are subject to liabilities or that have problems relating to environmental condition, state of title, physical condition or compliance with zoning laws, building codes or other legal requirements and in each case, our acquisition may be without any, or with only limited, recourse with respect to unknown liabilities or conditions and we may be obligated to pay substantial sums to settle or cure it, which could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results. we are subject to certain risks associated with selling apartment communities, which could limit our operational and financial flexibility. we periodically dispose of apartment communities that no longer meet our strategic objectives, but adverse market conditions may make it difficult to sell apartment communities like the ones we own. we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. we also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. furthermore, we may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. these conditions may limit our ability to dispose of properties and to change our portfolio promptly in order to meet our strategic objectives, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market value of our securities. we are also subject to the following risks in connection with sales of our apartment communities: a significant portion of the proceeds from our overall property sales may be held by intermediaries in order for some sales to qualify as like-kind exchanges under section 1031 of the code, so that any related capital gain can be deferred for federal income tax purposes. as a result, we may not have immediate access to all of the cash proceeds generated from our property sales. in addition, if a transaction intended to qualify as a section 1031 exchange is later determined to be taxable, we may face adverse consequences, and if the laws applicable to such transactions are amended or repealed, we may not be able to dispose of properties on a tax deferred basis. intermediary agents of section 1031 exchange transactions typically handle large sums of money in trusts. misappropriation of funds by one of these agents could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. additionally, misappropriation of funds could result in the disposal of the property not qualifying for a tax deferred basis and adversely affect our financial condition. it is also possible the qualification of a transaction as a section 1031 exchange could be successfully challenged and determined to be currently taxable. in such case, our taxable income and earnings and profits would increase, which could increase the dividend income to our shareholders by reducing any return of capital they received. in some circumstances, we may be required to pay additional dividends or, in lieu of additional dividends, corporate income tax, possibly including interest and penalties. as a result, we may be required to borrow funds in order to pay additional dividends or taxes and the payment of such taxes could cause us to have less cash available to distribute to our shareholders. in addition, if a section 1031 exchange were later to be determined to be taxable, we 11 may be required to amend our tax returns for the applicable year in question, including any information reports sent to our shareholders; and federal tax laws applicable to reits limit our ability to profit on the sale of communities, and this limitation may prevent us from selling communities when market conditions are favorable. property ownership through joint ventures could limit our ability to act exclusively in our interest. from time to time we may acquire and/or develop properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. in that case, we could become engaged in a dispute with one or more of our partners which might affect our ability to operate a jointly-owned property. moreover, our partners could have business, economic or other objectives that are inconsistent with our objectives, including objectives that relate to the appropriate timing and terms of any sale or refinancing of a property. in some instances, our partners could have competing interests in our markets that could create conflicts of interest. also, our partners might refuse to make capital contributions when due and we may be responsible to our partners for indemnifiable losses. in general, we and our partners could each have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partners' interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction and may result in the valuation of our interest in the joint venture (if we are the seller) or of our partners' interest in the joint venture (if we are the buyer) at levels which may not be representative of the valuation that would result from an arm's length marketing process. other potential risks of a jointly-owned property include (i) a deadlock if we and our partners are unable to agree upon certain major and other decisions, (ii) a limitation of our ability to liquidate our position in the partnership or joint venture without the consent of the other partners and (iii) a requirement to provide guarantees in favor of lenders with respect to the indebtedness of the joint venture. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances in, on, around or under such property. such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. the presence of, or failure to properly remediate, hazardous, toxic substances or petroleum product releases may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell or rent the affected property or to borrow using the property as collateral. persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by the person. certain environmental laws impose liability for the release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may also seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials and other hazardous or toxic substances. federal and state laws also regulate the operation and subsequent removal of certain underground storage tanks. in connection with the current or former ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management, development or control of real property, we may be considered an owner or operator of such communities or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines, and claims for injuries to persons and property. our current policy is to obtain a phase i environmental study on each apartment community that we seek to acquire or develop, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling, and to proceed accordingly. we cannot assure you, however, that the phase i environmental studies or other environmental studies undertaken with respect to any of our current or future apartment communities will reveal: all or the full extent of potential environmental liabilities; that any prior owner or operator of a property did not create any material environmental condition unknown to us; that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of such apartment communities; or that environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions and pay amounts due on our debt. certain environmental laws impose liability on a previous owner of property to the extent that hazardous or toxic substances were present during the prior ownership period. a transfer of the property does not relieve an owner of such liability. thus, we may have liability with respect to apartment communities previously sold by our predecessors or by us. there have been a number of lawsuits against owners and operators of multifamily communities alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. insurance carriers have reacted to these liability awards by excluding mold-related claims from 12 standard policies and pricing mold endorsements separately. we have obtained a separate pollution insurance policy that covers mold-related claims and have adopted programs designed to minimize the existence of mold in any of our communities as well as guidelines for promptly addressing and resolving reports of mold. to the extent not covered by our pollution policy, the presence of mold could expose us to liability from residents and others if property damage or health concerns, or allegations thereof, arise. extreme weather or natural disasters may cause property damage or disrupt business, which could harm our business and operating results. we have properties located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, earthquakes, winds, floods, hurricanes and fires. such conditions may damage our properties, disrupt our operations and adversely impact our tenants. there can be no assurances that such conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage, which may negatively impact our results of operations and reduce the value of our properties. we carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities and intend to obtain similar coverage for apartment communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. we exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. any losses we experience that are not fully covered by our insurance may negatively impact our results of operations and may reduce the value of our properties. increasing real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums may negatively impact operating results. as a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes, utilities and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations, which can be widely outside of our control. if the costs associated with real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums should rise, without being offset by a corresponding increase in revenues, our results of operations could be negatively impacted, and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions could be adversely affected. compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost. the americans with disabilities act of 1990, or the ada, the fair housing act of 1988, or the fha, and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require us to modify our existing apartment communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. we cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. development and construction risks could impact our profitability. as of december 31, 2017 , we had three development communities under construction totaling 937 units. we may make further investments in these and other development communities as opportunities arise and may do so through joint ventures with unaffiliated parties. our development and construction activities are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs, could delay initial occupancy dates for all or a portion of a development community, and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project for which we are unable to obtain permits or authorizations; we may be unable to obtain financing for development activities under favorable terms, which could cause a delay in 13 construction resulting in increased costs, decreases in revenue, and potentially cause us to abandon the opportunity; yields may be less than anticipated as a result of delays in completing projects, costs that exceed budget, higher than expected concessions for lease-up and lower rents than initially estimated; bankruptcy of developers in our development projects could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the development of our communities and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations; we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring such opportunities; we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of an apartment community on schedule, or incur development or construction costs that exceed our original estimates, and we may be unable to charge rents that would compensate for any increase in such costs; occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed apartment community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, preventing us from meeting our profitability goals for that community; when we sell to third parties apartment communities or properties that we developed or renovated, we may be subject to warranty or construction defects that are uninsured or exceed the limit of our insurance; and our failure to successfully enter into a joint venture agreement may prohibit an otherwise advantageous investment if we cannot raise the money through other means. short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents. our apartment leases are generally for a term of one year or less. as these leases typically permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. we may not realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the merger or do so within the anticipated time frame. because post properties was a public company, we expect to benefit from the elimination of duplicative costs associated with supporting post properties' public company platform and the leveraging of our technology and systems. these savings are expected to be realized upon full integration. integration efforts are ongoing, and we may encounter difficulties and delays in the integration process. if we are unable to manage and complete the integration of post properties' business in an efficient and timely manner, we may not achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the merger in the expected time frame, or at all. likewise, there can be no assurance that we will realize other anticipated operating efficiencies and synergies from the merger. risks related to our indebtedness and financing activities our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2017 , the amount of our total debt was approximately $4.5 billion . we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with, among other things, our acquisition, development and operating activities. the degree of our leverage creates significant risks, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our funds from operations to servicing our debt and our cash flow may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution and funds available for acquisitions, development and redevelopment; we may be more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns than our competitors that have less debt; we may be limited in our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions; we may default on our indebtedness, which could result in acceleration of those obligations, assignment of rents and leases and loss of properties to foreclosure; and if one of our subsidiaries defaults, it could trigger a cross default or cross acceleration provision under other indebtedness, which could cause an immediate default or could allow the lenders to declare all funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable. if any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 14 we may be unable to renew, repay or refinance our outstanding debt, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that either secured or unsecured indebtedness, will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, if at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our apartment communities on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions and pay amounts due on our debt. furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the reit distribution requirements of the code. rising interest rates would increase the cost of our variable rate debt and could adversely impact additional debt we may incur in the future. we have incurred and expect in the future to incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. accordingly, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make distributions and pay amounts due on our debt or cause us to be in default under certain debt instruments. in addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead holders of shares of our common stock to demand a higher yield on their shares from distributions by us, which could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. in june 2017, the federal reserve reached a decision to raise the federal funds rate by 0.25 points with additional gradual increases anticipated to occur over the next year, subject to ongoing economic uncertainty. in december 2017, the federal reserve increased the federal funds rate by another 0.25 points to a range of 1.25 percent to 1.5 percent. these increases in the federal funds rate and any future increases due to other key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate or inflation, may cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. any continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely impact our financial condition. we currently fund the acquisition and development of apartment communities partially through borrowings (including our revolving credit facility) as well as from other sources such as sales of communities which no longer meet our investment criteria. in addition, we may fund other of our capital requirements through debt. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur, and we may incur more debt in the future. accordingly, subject to limitations on indebtedness set forth in various loan agreements and the indentures governing our senior notes, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service and an increased risk of default on our obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. the restrictive terms of certain of our indebtedness may cause acceleration of debt payments. at december 31, 2017 , we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $4.5 billion . our indebtedness contains financial covenants as to interest coverage ratios, maximum secured debt, maintenance of unencumbered asset value, and total debt to gross assets, among others, and cross default provisions with other material debt. in the event that an event of default occurs, our lenders may declare borrowings under the respective loan agreements to be due and payable immediately, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. from time-to-time, we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. 15 a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a significant amount of debt outstanding. we are currently assigned corporate credit ratings from each of the three ratings agencies based on their evaluation of our creditworthiness. these ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, and sustainability of cash flows and earnings. if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, we could be required to pay additional interest and fees on our outstanding borrowings. in addition, a downgrade may adversely impact our ability to borrow secured and unsecured debt and otherwise limit our access to capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. financing may not be available and could be dilutive. our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. we and other companies in the real estate industry have experienced limited availability of financing from time to time. restricted lending practices could impact our ability to obtain debt financing. if we issue additional equity securities to obtain additional financing, the interest of our existing shareholders could be diluted. risks related to maa's organization and ownership of its stock maa's ownership limit restricts the transferability of its capital stock. maa's charter limits ownership of its capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of its capital stock, both common and preferred, unless approved by its board of directors. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in it losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of its shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the code, owning 50% or more of its shares. if an investor acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, maa: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on its books; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; will consider the shares held in trust for its benefit; and will either direct the holder to sell the shares and turn over any profit to maa, or maa will redeem the shares. if maa redeems the shares, the holder will be paid a price equal to the lesser of: the principal price paid for the shares by the holder, a price per share equal to the market price (as determined in the manner set forth in its charter) of the applicable capital stock, the market price (as so determined) on the date such holder would, but for the restrictions on transfers set forth in its charter, be deemed to have acquired ownership of the shares and the maximum price allowed under the tennessee greenmail act (such price being the average of the highest and lowest closing market price for the shares during the 30 trading days preceding the purchase of such shares or, if the holder of such shares has commenced a tender offer or has announced an intention to seek control of maa, during the 30 trading days preceding the commencement of such tender offer or the making of such announcement). the redemption price may be paid, at maa's option, by delivering one common unit (subject to adjustment from time to time in the event of, among other things, stock splits, stock dividends, or recapitalizations affecting its common stock or certain mergers, consolidations or asset transfers by maa) issued by the operating partnership for each excess share being redeemed. if an investor acquires shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: the holder may lose its power to dispose of the shares; 16 the holder may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and the holder may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. future offerings of debt or equity securities, which may rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. if we decide to issue additional debt securities in the future, which would rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. additionally, any equity securities or convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. we and, indirectly, our shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings. thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings. the form, timing and amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations. though our board of directors has a history of declaring dividends in advance of the quarter they are paid, the form, timing and amount of dividend distributions will be declared, and standing practice changed, at the discretion of the board of directors. the form, timing and amount of dividend distributions will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the reit provisions of the code and other factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. our board of directors may modify our dividend policy from time to time. provisions of maa's charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of maa. ownership limit the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of maa by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. preferred stock maa's charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, 867,846 of which have been designated as 8.50% series i cumulative redeemable preferred stock, which we refer to as maa series i preferred stock. in addition to the maa series i preferred stock, the board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any other series of preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of maa, even if a change in control were in maa shareholders' best interests. as of december 31, 2017 , 867,846 shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding, all of which shares were maa series i preferred stock. tennessee anti-takeover statutes as a tennessee corporation, maa is subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire maa and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if maa's acquisition would be in maa shareholders' best interests. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common stock. the market price of shares of common stock of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's common stock may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common stock to go down. in addition, although maa's common stock is listed on the nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's common stock may be lower than the trading volume for other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of maa's common stock. 17 changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to our results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of maa's common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit's equity securities is based primarily upon the market's perception of the reit's growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. for that reason, maa's common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of maa's common stock. in addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to pay distributions to maa's shareholders. our failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of maa's common stock. the stock markets, including the nyse, on which maa lists its common stock, have, at times, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. as a result, the market price of maa's common stock could be similarly volatile, and investors in maa's common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. among the market conditions that may affect the market price of maa's publicly traded securities are the following: our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly and annual operating results; changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; additions and departures of key personnel; inability to access the capital markets; strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, dispositions, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; the issuance of additional shares of maa's common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, including under maa's at-the-market offering programs; the reputation of reits generally and the reputation of reits with portfolios similar to ours; the attractiveness of the securities of reits in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies); an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for maa's common stock; the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; speculation in the press or investment community; actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds; changes in accounting principles; terrorist acts; and general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. risks related to the operating partnership's organization and ownership of op units the operating partnership's existing unitholders have limited approval rights, which may prevent the operating partnership's sole general partner, maa, from completing a change of control transaction that may be in the best interests of all unitholders and of all the shareholders of maa. maa may not engage in a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the operating partnership, dissolve the operating partnership or, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, take any action that would result in any unitholder realizing taxable gain, without the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding op units held by holders other than maa or its affiliates, or class a op units. the right of the holders of our class a op units to vote on these transactions could limit maa's ability to complete a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interest of all unitholders of the operating partnership and all shareholders of maa. 18 in certain circumstances, certain of the operating partnership's unitholders must approve the operating partnership's sale of certain properties contributed by the unitholders. in certain circumstances as detailed in the partnership agreement of the operating partnership, the operating partnership may not sell or otherwise transfer certain properties unless a specified percentage of the limited partners who were partners in the limited partnership holding such properties at the time of its acquisition by us approves such sale or transfer. the exercise of these approval rights by the operating partnership's unitholders could delay or prevent the operating partnership from completing a transaction that may be in the best interest of all of the operating partnership's unitholders and all shareholders of maa. maa, its officers and directors have substantial influence over the operating partnership's affairs. maa, as the operating partnership's sole general partner and acting through its officers and directors, has a substantial influence on the operating partnership's affairs. maa, its officers and directors could exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interest of the operating partnership's unitholders. also, maa owns approximately 96.4% of the op units and as such, will have substantial influence on the outcome of substantially all matters submitted to the operating partnership's unitholders for approval. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common stock, which would affect the redemption price of the op units. the market price of shares of common stock of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's common stock may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common stock to go down, which would reduce the price received upon redemption of any op units, or if maa so elects, the value of maa's common stock received in lieu of cash upon redemption of such op units. in addition, although maa's common stock is listed on the nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's shares may be lower than the trading volume for companies in other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares. insufficient cash flow from operations or a decline in the market price of maa's common stock may reduce the amount of cash available to the operating partnership to meet its obligations. t he operating partnership is subject to the risk that its cash flow will be insufficient to service its debt and to pay distributions to its unitholders, which may cause maa to not have the funds to pay distributions to its shareholders. maa's failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future results of operations and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of its shares and thus potentially reduce maa's ability to contribute funds from issuances down to the operating partnership, resulting in a lower level of cash available for investment, to service debt or to make distributions to the operating partnership's unitholders. risks related to tax laws failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders. if maa fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, maa will be subject to federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates (subject to any applicable alternative minimum tax) without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction applicable to reits. in addition, unless maa is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, maa would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which it loses its qualification. the additional tax liability resulting from the failure to qualify as a reit would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds available for distribution to maa's shareholders. maa's failure to qualify as a reit also could impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of maa's stock. maa believes that it is organized and qualified as a reit, and maa intends to operate in a manner that will allow it to continue to qualify as a reit. maa cannot assure, however, that it is qualified or will remain qualified as a reit. this is because qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the code for which 19 there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within maa's control. in addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of qualification as a reit. even if maa qualifies as a reit, maa will be subject to various federal, state and local taxes, including property taxes and income taxes on taxable income that maa does not timely distribute to its shareholders. in addition, maa may hold certain assets and engage in certain activities that a reit could not engage in directly through its taxable reit subsidiaries, or trss, and those trss will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on their taxable income without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction applicable to reits. furthermore, we have a subsidiary that has elected to be treated as a reit, and if our subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, it is possible that we also would fail to qualify as a reit unless we (or the subsidiary reit) could qualify for certain relief provisions. the qualification of our subsidiary reit as a reit will depend on satisfaction, on an annual or quarterly basis, of numerous requirements set forth in highly technical and complex provisions of the code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. a determination as to whether such requirements are satisfied involves various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. the fact that we hold substantially all of our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements for us. no assurance can be given that our subsidiary reit will qualify as a reit for any particular year. if post properties, or any other reit previously acquired by us, failed to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we would incur adverse tax consequences and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. prior to the merger, post properties operated in a manner intended to allow it to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if post properties, or any other reit previously acquired by maa (each, a "merged reit"), is determined to have lost its reit status at any time prior to its merger with maa, maa would be subject to serious adverse tax consequences, including: maa would be required to pay u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates on the taxable income of such merged reit without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction for the taxable years that the merged reit did not qualify as a reit and for which the statute of limitations period remains open; and maa would be required to pay any federal alternative minimum tax liability of the merged reit and any applicable state and local tax liability, in each case, for all taxable years that remain open under the applicable statute of limitations periods. maa is liable for any tax liability of a merged reit with respect to any periods prior to the merger of such merged reit with maa. if a merged reit failed to qualify as a reit, then in the event of a taxable disposition by maa of an asset previously held by the merged reit during a specified period of up to 5 years following the merger of the merged reit with maa, maa will be subject to corporate income tax with respect to any built-in gain inherent in such asset as of the date of such merger. in addition, unless an applicable statutory relief provision applies, if a merged reit failed to qualify as a reit for a taxable year, then the merged reit would not have been entitled to re-elect to be taxed as a reit until the fifth taxable year following the year during which it was disqualified. furthermore, if both maa and a merged reit were "investment companies" under the "investment company" rules set forth in section 368 of the code at the time of the merger of maa and such merged reit, the failure of maa or such merged reit to have qualified as a reit at the time of their merger could result in such merger being treated as taxable for federal income tax purposes. as a result of all these factors, the failure by a merged reit to have qualified as a reit could jeopardize maa's qualification as a reit and require the operating partnership to provide material amounts of cash to maa to satisfy maa's additional tax liabilities and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on maa's business prospects, financial condition or results of operations and on maa's ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. the operating partnership may fail to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. we believe that the operating partnership qualifies, and has so qualified since its formation, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and not as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. no assurance can be provided, however, that the internal revenue service, or irs, will not challenge the treatment of the operating partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating the operating partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then the taxable income of the operating partnership would be taxable at regular corporate income tax rates. in addition, the treatment of the operating partnership as a 20 corporation would cause maa to fail to qualify as a reit. see "failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders" above. certain dispositions of property by us may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a 100% penalty tax on any gain attributable to the disposition. any gain resulting from a transfer of property that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated for federal income tax purposes as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property would be considered prohibited transactions. whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. as such, the irs may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. if the irs were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes. a safe harbor to the characterization of the disposition of property as a prohibited transaction and the resulting imposition of the 100% tax is available; however, we cannot assure that we will be able to comply with such safe harbor in connection with any property dispositions. the recently enacted legislation informally titled the tax cuts and jobs act and other legislative, regulatory and administrative developments may adversely affect maa or its shareholders. on december 22, 2017, president trump signed into law p.l. 115-97, informally titled the tax cuts and jobs act, or the tax act. the tax act makes major changes to the code, including a number of provisions of the code that affect the taxation of reits and their shareholders. certain provisions of the tax act that may impact us and our shareholders include: temporarily reducing individual u.s. federal income tax rates on ordinary income; the highest individual u.s. federal income tax rate will be reduced from 39.6% to 37% (through taxable years ending in 2025); reducing the maximum corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%; permitting a deduction for certain pass-through business income, including dividends received from reits that are not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income, which generally will allow individuals, trusts and estates to deduct up to 20% of such amounts, resulting in an effective maximum u.s. federal income tax rate of 29.6% on such dividends (through taxable years ending in 2025); reducing the highest rate of withholding with respect to distributions to non-u.s. shareholders attributable to gains from the sale or exchange of u.s. real property interests from 35% to 21%; limiting the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of taxable income (prior to the application of dividends paid deduction); amending the limitation on the deduction of net interest expense for all businesses, other than certain electing businesses, including real estate businesses (which could adversely affect the taxation of any taxable reit subsidiaries); and eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax. the individual and collective impact of these provisions and other provisions of the tax act on maa and its shareholders is uncertain, and may not become evident for some period of time. in addition, other legislative, regulatory or administrative changes may be enacted or promulgated, either prospectively or with retroactive effect, and may adversely affect maa or its shareholders. maa's shareholders and prospective shareholders should consult their individual tax advisors regarding the implications of the tax act and other potential legislative, regulatory or administrative changes on their investment in maa's capital stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk includes risks that arise from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices and other market changes that affect market sensitive instruments. our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates on our borrowings. at december 31, 2017 , 27.5% of our total capitalization consisted of borrowings. our interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps and caps, which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix or cap the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. we use our best efforts to have our debt instruments mature across multiple years, which we believe limits our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. at december 31, 2017 , approximately 83.0% of our outstanding debt was subject to fixed or capped rates after considering related derivative instruments we regularly review interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for our interest rate swaps and cap, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and cap and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in thousands). 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 total thereafter total fair value long-term debt fixed rate $ 98,942 $ 570,114 $ 158,281 $ 192,903 $ 368,401 $ 1,786,111 $ 3,174,752 $ 3,289,428 average interest rate 4.06 % 4.43 % 4.40 % 5.19 % 3.63 % 3.88 % 4.06 % variable rate (1) $ 55,000 $ $ 560,000 $ 150,000 $ $ $ 765,000 $ 1,346,309 average interest rate 1.76 % % 2.43 % 2.31 % % % 2.36 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ 550,000 $ $ $ $ $ $ 550,000 $ 2,235 average pay rate 2.00 % % % % % % 2.00 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 25,000 $ $ $ $ $ $ 25,000 $ average pay rate 4.50 % % % % % % 4.50 % (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements.risk factors" and, from time to time, in other reports we file with the securities and exchange commission, or the sec, or in other documents that we publicly disseminate. new factors may also emerge from time to time that could have a material adverse effect on our business. except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date on which this annual report on form 10-k is filed. item 1. business. overview maa is a multifamily focused, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or reit. we own, operate, acquire and selectively develop apartment communities located in the southeast, southwest and mid-atlantic regions of the united states. as of december 31, 2018 , we maintained full or partial ownership of apartment communities and commercial properties across 17 states and the district of columbia, summarized as follows: multifamily communities units consolidated 303 100,595 unconsolidated 1 269 total 304 100,864 commercial properties sq. ft. (1) consolidated 4 260,000 (1) excludes commercial space located at our multifamily apartment communities, which totals approximately 615,000 square feet of gross leasable space. our business is conducted principally through the operating partnership. maa is the sole general partner of the operating partnership, holding 113,844,267 op units, comprising a 96.5% partnership interest in the operating partnership as of december 31, 2018 . maa and maalp were formed in tennessee in 1993. as of december 31, 2018 , we had 2,508 full-time employees and 44 part-time employees. 3 business objectives our primary business objectives are to protect and grow existing property values, to maintain a stable and increasing cash flow that will fund our dividends and distributions through all parts of the real estate investment cycle, and to create shareholder value by growing in a disciplined manner. to achieve these objectives, we intend to continue to pursue the following goals and strategies: effectively and efficiently operate our existing properties with an intense property and asset management focus and a decentralized structure; manage real estate investment cycles by taking an opportunistic approach to buying, selling, developing and renovating apartment communities; diversify investment capital across markets in which we operate to achieve a balanced portfolio and minimize volatile operating performance; and actively manage our capital structure to enhance predictability of earnings to fund our dividends and distributions. operations our goal is to generate return on investment collectively and in each apartment community by increasing revenues, controlling operating expenses, maintaining high occupancy levels and reinvesting in the income producing capacity of each apartment community as appropriate. the steps taken to meet these objectives include: providing management information and improved customer services through technology innovations; utilizing systems to enhance property managers' ability to optimize revenue by adjusting rental rates in response to local market conditions and individual unit amenities; implementing programs to control expenses through investment in cost-saving initiatives; analyzing individual asset productivity performances to identify best practices and improvement areas; maintaining the physical condition of each property through ongoing capital investments; improving the "curb appeal" of the apartment communities through extensive landscaping and exterior improvements, and repositioning apartment communities from time-to-time to enhance or maintain market positions; managing lease expirations to align with peak leasing traffic patterns and to maximize productivity of property staffing; allocating additional capital, including capital for selective interior and exterior improvements; compensating employees through performance-based compensation and stock ownership programs; and maintaining a hands-on management style and "flat" organizational structure that emphasizes property level decision making coupled with asset management and senior management's monitoring. we believe that our decentralized operating structure capitalizes on specific market knowledge, provides greater personal accountability than a centralized structure and is beneficial in the acquisition and redevelopment processes. to support this decentralized operational structure, senior management, along with various asset management functions, are proactively involved in supporting and reviewing property management through extensive reporting processes and frequent on-site visits. to maximize the amount of information shared between senior management and the properties on a real-time basis, we utilize a web-based property management system. the system contains property and accounting modules that allow for operating efficiencies and continued expense control, provide for various expanded revenue management practices, and improve the support provided to on-site property operations. we use a "yield management" pricing program that helps our property managers optimize rental revenues, and we also utilize purchase order and accounts payable software to provide improved controls and management information. investment in technology continues to drive operating efficiencies in our business and help us to better meet the changing needs of our residents. our residents have the ability to conduct business with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and complete online leasing applications and renewals via the use of our web-based resident internet portal. interacting with our residents through such technology has allowed us to improve resident satisfaction ratings and increase the efficiency of our operating teams. acquisitions one of our growth strategies is to acquire apartment communities that are located in various markets throughout the southeast, southwest and mid-atlantic regions of the united states. acquisitions, along with dispositions, help us achieve and maintain our desired product mix, geographic diversification and asset allocation. portfolio growth allows for maximizing the efficiency of the existing management and overhead structure. we have extensive experience in the acquisition of apartment 4 communities. we will continue to evaluate opportunities that arise, and we will utilize this strategy to increase our number of apartment communities in strong and growing markets. we acquired the following properties during the year ended december 31, 2018 : multifamily acquisition market units closing date sync 36 denver, co 374 april 26, 2018 commercial acquisition market sq ft closing date hue retail (1) raleigh, nc 7,500 august 1, 2018 land acquisition market acres closing date westminster denver, co 10 october 1, 2018 long point road houston, tx 9 november 1, 2018 (1) we acquired the ground floor retail portion of one of our existing multifamily apartment communities. dispositions we sell apartment communities and other assets that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when market conditions are favorable, and we redeploy the proceeds from those sales to acquire, develop and redevelop additional apartment communities and rebalance our portfolio across or within geographic regions. dispositions also allow us to realize a portion of the value created through our investments and provide additional liquidity. we are then able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising additional capital. in deciding to sell an apartment community, we consider current market conditions and generally solicit competing bids from unrelated parties for these individual properties, considering the sales price and other key terms of each proposal. we also consider portfolio dispositions when such a structure is useful to maximize proceeds and efficiency of execution. during the year ended december 31, 2018 , we disposed of five land parcels totaling approximately 76 acres. development as another part of our growth strategy, we invest in a limited number of development projects. development activities may be conducted through wholly-owned affiliated companies or through joint ventures with unaffiliated parties. typically, fixed price construction contracts are signed with unrelated parties to minimize construction risk. we typically manage the leasing portion of the project as units become available for lease. we may also engage in limited expansion development opportunities on existing communities in which we typically serve as the developer. while we seek opportunistic new development investments offering attractive long-term investment returns, we intend to maintain a total development commitment that we consider modest in relation to our total balance sheet and investment portfolio. during the year ended december 31, 2018 , we incurred $57.1 million in development costs and completed 3 development projects. the following multifamily projects were under development as of december 31, 2018 (dollars in thousands): project: market total units units completed cost to date budgeted cost estimated cost per unit expected completion post parkside at wade iii raleigh, nc 150 $ 7,235 $ 25,000 $ 167 4th quarter 2019 post sierra at frisco bridges ii dallas, tx 348 12,013 69,000 198 3rd quarter 2020 sync 36 ii denver, co 79 11,685 24,500 310 4th quarter 2019 577 $ 30,933 $ 118,500 redevelopment we focus on both interior unit upgrades and exterior amenities above and beyond routine capital upkeep on existing apartment communities across our portfolio that we believe have the ability to support additional rent growth. during the year ended december 31, 2018 , we renovated 8,155 units at an average cost of $6,138 per unit, achieving average rental rate increases of 10.5% above the normal market rate for similar but non-renovated units. capital structure we use a combination of debt and equity sources to fund our business objectives. we maintain a capital structure, focused on maintaining access, flexibility and low costs, that we believe allows us to proactively source potential investment 5 opportunities in the marketplace. we structure our debt maturities to avoid disproportionate exposure in any given year. our primary debt financing strategy is to access the unsecured debt markets to provide our debt capital needs, but we also maintain a limited amount of secured debt and maintain our access to both the secured and unsecured debt markets for maximum flexibility. we also believe that we have significant access to the equity capital markets. as of december 31, 2018 , 28.6% of our total market capitalization consisted of debt borrowings, including 25.6% under unsecured credit facilities and unsecured senior notes and 3.0% under secured borrowings. we currently intend to target our total debt, net of cash held, to a range of approximately 32% to 38% of the undepreciated book value of our assets. our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels and our board of directors can modify this policy at any time. we may issue new equity to maintain our debt within the target range. covenants for our unsecured senior notes limit our total debt to 60% or less of our adjusted total assets (as defined in the covenants for the bonds issued by maalp). as of december 31, 2018 , our total debt was approximately 32.6% of our adjusted total assets. we continuously review opportunities for lowering our cost of capital. we plan to continue using unsecured debt in order to take advantage of the lower cost of capital and flexibility provided by these markets. we will evaluate opportunities to repurchase shares when we believe that our share price is significantly below our net present value. we also look for opportunities where we can acquire or develop apartment communities, selectively funded or partially funded by sales of equity securities, when appropriate opportunities arise. we focus on improving the net present value of our investments by generating cash flows from our portfolio of assets above the estimated total cost of debt and equity capital. we routinely make new investments when we believe it will be accretive to shareholder value over the life of the investments. competition all of our apartment communities are located in areas that include other apartment communities. occupancy and rental rates are affected by the number of competitive apartment communities in a particular area. the owners of competing apartment communities may have greater resources than us, and the managers of these apartment communities may have more experience than our management. moreover, single-family rental housing, manufactured housing, condominiums and the new and existing home markets provide housing alternatives to potential residents of apartment communities. competition for new residents is generally intense across all of our markets. some competing apartment communities offer features that our apartment communities do not have. competing apartment communities can use concessions or lower rents to obtain temporary competitive advantages. also, some competing apartment communities are larger or newer than our apartment communities. the competitive position of each apartment community is different depending upon many factors including sub-market supply and demand. in addition, other real estate investors compete with us to acquire existing properties and to develop new properties. these competitors include insurance companies, pension and investment funds, public and private real estate companies, investment companies and other public and private apartment reits, some of which may have greater resources or lower capital costs than we do. we believe, however, that we are generally well-positioned to compete effectively for residents and investments. we believe our competitive advantages include: a fully integrated organization with property management, development, redevelopment, acquisition, marketing, sales and financing expertise; scalable operating and support systems, which include automated systems to meet the changing technological needs of our residents; access to a wide variety of debt and equity capital sources; geographic diversification with a presence in 38 defined metropolitan statistical areas across the southeast, southwest and mid-atlantic regions of the united states; and significant presence in many of our major markets that allows us to be a local operating expert. moving forward, we plan to continue to optimize lease expiration management, improve expense control, increase resident retention efforts and align employee incentive plans with our performance. we also plan to continue to make capital improvements to both our apartment communities and individual units on a regular basis in order to maintain a competitive position in each individual market. we believe this plan of operation, coupled with the portfolio's strengths in targeting residents across a geographically diverse platform, should position us for continued operational upside. environmental matters as a part of our standard apartment community acquisition and development processes, we generally obtain environmental studies of the sites from outside environmental engineering firms. the purpose of these studies is to identify potential sources of contamination at the site and to assess the status of environmental regulatory compliance. these studies 6 generally include historical reviews of the site, reviews of certain public records, preliminary investigations of the site and surrounding properties, inspection for the presence of asbestos, poly-chlorinated biphenyls and underground storage tanks and the preparation and issuance of written reports. depending on the results of these studies, more invasive procedures, such as soil sampling or ground water analysis, may be performed to investigate potential sources of contamination. these studies must be satisfactorily completed before we take ownership of an acquisition or development property; however, no assurance can be given that the studies or additional documents reviewed identify all significant environmental risks. see "risk factors - risks relating to our real estate investments and our operations - environmental problems are possible and can be costly." the environmental studies we received on properties that we have acquired have not revealed any material environmental liabilities. should any potential environmental risks or conditions be discovered during our due diligence process, the potential costs of remediation will be assessed carefully and factored into the cost of acquisition, assuming the identified risks and factors are deemed to be manageable and within reason. we are not aware of any existing conditions that we believe would be considered a material environmental liability. nevertheless, it is possible that the studies do not reveal all environmental risks or that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are not aware. moreover, no assurance can be given concerning future laws, ordinances or regulations, or the potential introduction of hazardous or toxic substances by neighboring properties or residents. merger with post properties we completed our merger with post properties, inc., or post properties, on december 1, 2016. accordingly, the consolidated net assets and results of operations of post properties are included in our consolidated financial statements from and after the merger closing date. qualification as a real estate investment trust maa has elected to be taxed as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code. to continue to qualify as a reit, maa must continue to meet certain tests which, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our reit taxable income (other than our net capital gains) to our shareholders annually. if maa maintains its qualification as a reit, maa generally will not be subject to u.s. federal income taxes at the corporate level on its net income to the extent it distributes such net income to its shareholders annually. even if maa continues to qualify as a reit, it will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and its property. in 2018 , maa paid total distributions of $3.69 per share of common stock to its shareholders, which was above the 90% reit distribution requirement and was in excess of reit taxable income. recent developments in february 2019, we closed on the disposition of a 0.4 acre land parcel located in the atlanta, georgia market, resulting in a net gain of $9.0 million on the sale of non-depreciable real estate assets recognized in the first quarter of 2019. the gain on sale of non-depreciable real estate assets was not reflected in our initial earnings guidance for the first quarter of 2019 or the full year of 2019. we will review our 2019 earnings guidance in our earnings release and conference call discussing results for the quarter ending march 31, 2019. in february 2019, we entered into a $191.3 million fixed rate secured property mortgage with a fixed rate of 4.43%, maturing in february 2049. website access to our reports maa and the operating partnership file combined periodic reports with the sec. our annual reports on form 10-k, along with our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports, are available on our website at https://www.maac.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the site and should not be considered part of this annual report on form 10-k. all of the aforementioned materials may also be obtained free of charge by contacting our investor relations department, 6815 poplar avenue, suite 500, germantown, tn 38138. 7 item 1a. risk factors. in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, we have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impact our business operations. if any of these risks occur, our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, the market price of our capital stock and the trading price of our debt securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our capital stock or debt securities. risks related to our real estate investments and our operations unfavorable market and economic conditions could adversely affect occupancy levels, rental revenues and the value of our properties. unfavorable market conditions in the areas in which we operate and unfavorable economic conditions may significantly affect our occupancy levels, our rental rates and collections, the value of the properties and our ability to acquire or dispose of apartment communities on economically favorable terms. our ability to lease our apartment communities at favorable rates is adversely affected by the increase in supply in the multifamily and other rental markets and is dependent upon the overall level in the economy, which is adversely affected by, among other things, job losses and unemployment levels, personal debt levels, a downturn in the housing market, stock market volatility and uncertainty about the future. some of our major expenses generally do not decline when related rents decline. we would expect that declines in our occupancy levels, rental revenues and/or the values of our apartment communities would cause us to have less cash available to make payments on our debt and to make distributions, which could adversely affect our financial condition or the market value of our securities. factors that may affect our occupancy levels, our rental revenues, and/or the value of our apartment communities include the following, among others: downturns in global, national, regional and local economic conditions, particularly increases in unemployment; declines in mortgage interest rates and home pricing, making alternative housing more affordable; government or builder incentives with respect to home ownership, making alternative housing options more attractive; local real estate market conditions, including oversupply of apartments or other housing available for rent, or a reduction in demand for apartments in the area; declines in the financial condition of our residents, which may make it more difficult for us to collect rents from some residents; declines in market rental rates; declines in household formation; and increases in operating costs, if these costs cannot be passed through to our residents. failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions depends on our ability to generate cash flow in excess of operating costs and capital expenditure requirements and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. our funds from operations may be insufficient because of factors that are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartments or oversupply of available apartments in our markets, which might adversely affect occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartments; conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use or the increase in the number of condominiums and single family homes available for sale; weakness in the overall economy, which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rental rates; inability to initially, or subsequently after lease terminations, rent apartments on favorable economic terms; failure of development communities to be completed, if at all, within budget and on a timely basis or to lease-up as anticipated; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; 8 changes in laws including, but not limited to, tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; withdrawal of government support of apartment financing through its financial backing of the federal national mortgage association, or fannie mae, or the federal home loan mortgage corporation, or freddie mac; an uninsured loss, including those resulting from a catastrophic storm, earthquake, or act of terrorism; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase our acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, we have relied on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program, including our existing property developments. while we have sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings, if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to make payments on our debt and to make distributions at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price or the trading price of our debt securities. we are dependent on a concentration of our investments in a single asset class, making our results of operations more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in the sector or other economic factors. as of december 31, 2018 , substantially all of our investments are concentrated in the multifamily sector. as a result, we will be subject to risks inherent in investments in a single type of property. a downturn or slowdown in the demand for multifamily housing may have more pronounced effects on our results of operations or on the value of our assets than if we had diversified our investments into more than one asset class. our operations are concentrated in the southeast, southwest and mid-atlantic regions of the united states; we are subject to general economic conditions in the regions in which we operate. as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 39.4% of our portfolio is located in our top five markets: atlanta, georgia; dallas, texas; austin, texas; charlotte, north carolina; and orlando, florida. in addition, our overall operations are concentrated in the southeast, southwest and mid-atlantic regions of the united states. our performance could be adversely affected by economic conditions in, and other factors relating to, these geographic areas, including supply and demand for apartments in these areas, zoning and other regulatory conditions and competition from other communities and alternative forms of housing. in particular, our performance is disproportionately influenced by job growth and unemployment. to the extent the economic conditions, job growth and unemployment in any of these markets deteriorate or any of these areas experiences natural disasters, the value of our portfolio, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions could be adversely affected. failure to succeed in new markets may have adverse consequences on our performance. we may make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. our historical experience in our existing markets does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets, should we choose to enter them. we may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including an inability to accurately evaluate local market conditions, to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities, to hire and retain key personnel, and a lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. in addition, we may abandon opportunities to enter new markets that we have begun to explore for any reason and may, as a result, fail to recover expenses already incurred. substantial competition among apartment communities and real estate companies may adversely affect our revenues and development and acquisition opportunities. there are numerous other apartment communities and real estate companies, some of which may have greater financial and other resources than we have, within the market area of each of our communities that compete with us for residents and development and acquisition opportunities. the number of competitive apartment communities and real estate companies in these areas could have a material effect on (1) our ability to rent our apartments and generate revenues, and (2) development and acquisition opportunities. the activities of these competitors could cause us to pay a higher price for a new property than we otherwise would have paid or may prevent us from purchasing a desired property at all, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. 9 acts of violence could decrease the value of our assets and could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our apartment communities could directly or indirectly be the location or target of actual or threatened terrorist attacks, crimes, shootings or other acts of violence, the occurrence of which could impact the value of our communities through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs, as well as result in operational losses due to reduced rental demand, and the availability of insurance may be limited or may be subject to substantial costs. if such an incident were to occur at one of our apartment communities, we may also become subject to significant liability claims. in addition, the adverse effects that actual or threatened terrorist attacks could have on national economic conditions, as well as economic conditions in the markets in which we operate, could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we rely on information technology systems in our operations, and any breach or security failure of those systems could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. we rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store information and to manage or support our business processes. we maintain confidential financial and business information regarding us and persons with which we do business on our information technology systems. we also collect and hold personally identifiable information of our residents and prospective residents in connection with our leasing and property management activities, and we collect and hold personally identifiable information of our employees in connection with their employment. in addition, we engage third party service providers that may collect and hold personally identifiable information of our residents, prospective residents and employees in connection with providing business services to us, including web hosting, property management, leasing, accounting and payroll services. the protection of the information technology systems on which we rely is critically important to us. we take steps, and generally require third party service providers to take steps, to protect the security of the information maintained in our and our service providers' information technology systems, including the use of systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing of the information. however, we face risks associated with breaches or security failures of the information technology systems on which we rely, which could result from, among other incidents, cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses or employee error or misconduct. this risk of a breach or security failure, particularly through cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusion, has generally increased due to the rise in new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of the perpetrators of attempted attacks and intrusions. the security measures put in place by us and our service providers cannot provide absolute security and there can be no assurance that we or our service providers will not suffer a data security incident in the future, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to sensitive information stored on our or our service providers' systems, that such access will not, whether temporarily or permanently, impact, interfere with or interrupt our operations, or that any such incident will be discovered in a timely manner. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable as the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed to not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. accordingly, we and our providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures. further, in the future, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance information security measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. a data security incident could compromise our or our service providers' information technology systems, and the information stored by us or our service providers, including personally identifiable information of residents, prospective residents and employees, could be accessed, misused, publicly disclosed, corrupted, lost or stolen. any failure to prevent a breach or a security failure of our or our service providers' information technology systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation and brand, damage our competitive position, make it difficult for us to attract and retain residents, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. acquisitions of apartment communities involve various risks and may fail to meet expectations. we have acquired in the past, and if presented with attractive opportunities we intend to acquire in the future, apartment communities that meet our investment criteria. our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; even if we are able to finance the acquisition, cash flow from the acquisition may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments on the acquisition; 10 even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for an apartment community, we may be unable to complete the acquisition after incurring certain acquisition-related costs; we may incur significant costs and divert management's attention in connection with the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, including potential acquisitions that we are subsequently unable to complete; when we acquire an apartment community, we may invest additional amounts in it with the intention of increasing revenues and profitability, and these additional investments may not produce the anticipated improvements in revenues or profitability; we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate acquired apartment communities and new personnel into our existing operations, and the failure to successfully integrate such apartment communities or personnel will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our expected return on our investments and our overall profitability; and we may acquire properties that are subject to liabilities or that have problems relating to environmental condition, state of title, physical condition or compliance with zoning laws, building codes or other legal requirements and in each case, our acquisition may be without any, or with only limited, recourse with respect to unknown liabilities or conditions and we may be obligated to pay substantial sums to settle or cure it, which could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results. we are subject to certain risks associated with selling apartment communities, which could limit our operational and financial flexibility. we periodically dispose of apartment communities that no longer meet our strategic objectives, but adverse market conditions may make it difficult to sell apartment communities like the ones we own. we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. we also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. furthermore, we may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. these conditions may limit our ability to dispose of properties and to change our portfolio promptly in order to meet our strategic objectives, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market value of our securities. we are also subject to the following risks in connection with sales of our apartment communities: a significant portion of the proceeds from our overall property sales may be held by intermediaries in order for some sales to qualify as like-kind exchanges under section 1031 of the code, so that any related capital gain can be deferred for federal income tax purposes. as a result, we may not have immediate access to all of the cash proceeds generated from our property sales. in addition, if a transaction intended to qualify as a section 1031 exchange is later determined to be taxable, we may face adverse consequences, and if the laws applicable to such transactions are amended or repealed, we may not be able to dispose of properties on a tax deferred basis. intermediary agents of section 1031 exchange transactions typically handle large sums of money in trusts. misappropriation of funds by one of these agents could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. additionally, misappropriation of funds could result in the disposal of the property not qualifying for a tax deferred basis and adversely affect our financial condition. it is also possible the qualification of a transaction as a section 1031 exchange could be successfully challenged and determined to be currently taxable. in such case, our taxable income and earnings and profits would increase, which could increase the dividend income to our shareholders by reducing any return of capital they received. in some circumstances, we may be required to pay additional dividends or, in lieu of additional dividends, corporate income tax, possibly including interest and penalties. as a result, we may be required to borrow funds in order to pay additional dividends or taxes and the payment of such taxes could cause us to have less cash available to distribute to our shareholders. in addition, if a section 1031 exchange were later to be determined to be taxable, we may be required to amend our tax returns for the applicable year in question, including any information reports sent to our shareholders; and federal tax laws applicable to reits limit our ability to profit on the sale of communities, and this limitation may prevent us from selling communities when market conditions are favorable. property ownership through joint ventures could limit our ability to act exclusively in our interest. from time to time, we may acquire and/or develop properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. in that case, we could become engaged in a dispute with one or more of our partners which might affect our ability to operate a jointly-owned property. moreover, our partners could have business, economic or other objectives that are inconsistent with our objectives, including objectives that relate to the appropriate timing and terms of any sale or refinancing of a property. in some instances, our partners could have competing interests in our markets that could create conflicts of interest. also, our partners might refuse to make capital contributions when due and we 11 may be responsible to our partners for indemnifiable losses. in general, we and our partners could each have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partners' interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction and may result in the valuation of our interest in the joint venture (if we are the seller) or of our partners' interest in the joint venture (if we are the buyer) at levels which may not be representative of the valuation that would result from an arm's length marketing process. other potential risks of a jointly-owned property include (i) a deadlock if we and our partners are unable to agree upon certain major and other decisions, (ii) a limitation of our ability to liquidate our position in the partnership or joint venture without the consent of the other partners and (iii) a requirement to provide guarantees in favor of lenders with respect to the indebtedness of the joint venture. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances in, on, around or under such property. such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. the presence of, or failure to properly remediate, hazardous, toxic substances or petroleum product releases may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell or rent the affected property or to borrow using the property as collateral. persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by the person. certain environmental laws impose liability for the release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may also seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials and other hazardous or toxic substances. federal and state laws also regulate the operation and subsequent removal of certain underground storage tanks. in connection with the current or former ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management, development or control of real property, we may be considered an owner or operator of such apartment communities or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines, and claims for injuries to persons and property. our current policy is to obtain a phase i environmental study on each apartment community that we seek to acquire or develop, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling, and to proceed accordingly. we cannot assure you, however, that the phase i environmental studies or other environmental studies undertaken with respect to any of our current or future apartment communities will reveal: all or the full extent of potential environmental liabilities; that any prior owner or operator of a property did not create any material environmental condition unknown to us; that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of such apartment communities; or that environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. certain environmental laws impose liability on a previous owner of property to the extent that hazardous or toxic substances were present during the prior ownership period. a transfer of the property does not relieve an owner of such liability. thus, we may have liability with respect to apartment communities previously sold by our predecessors or by us. there have been a number of lawsuits against owners and operators of multifamily apartment communities alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. insurance carriers have reacted to these liability awards by excluding mold-related claims from standard policies and pricing mold endorsements separately. we have obtained a separate pollution insurance policy that covers mold-related claims and have adopted programs designed to minimize the existence of mold in any of our apartment communities as well as guidelines for promptly addressing and resolving reports of mold. to the extent not covered by our pollution policy, the presence of mold could expose us to liability from residents and others if property damage or health concerns, or allegations thereof, arise. extreme weather or natural disasters may cause property damage or disrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations. we have apartment communities located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, earthquakes, winds, floods, hurricanes and fires. such conditions may damage our properties, disrupt our operations and adversely impact our tenants. there can be no assurances that such conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. 12 losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage, which may negatively impact our results of operations and reduce the value of our properties. we carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our apartment communities and intend to obtain similar coverage for apartment communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. we exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. any losses we experience that are not fully covered by our insurance may negatively impact our results of operations and may reduce the value of our properties. increasing real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums may negatively impact operating results. as a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes, utilities and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations, which can be widely outside of our control. if the costs associated with real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums should rise, without being offset by a corresponding increase in revenues, our results of operations could be negatively impacted, and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions could be adversely affected. compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost. the americans with disabilities act of 1990, or the ada, the fair housing act of 1988, or the fha, and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require us to modify our existing apartment communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. we cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. development and construction risks could impact our profitability. as of december 31, 2018 , we had three development communities under construction totaling 577 units. we may make further investments in these and other development communities as opportunities arise and may do so through joint ventures with unaffiliated parties. our development and construction activities are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs, could delay initial occupancy dates for all or a portion of a development community, and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project for which we are unable to obtain permits or authorizations; we may be unable to obtain financing for development activities under favorable terms, which could cause a delay in construction resulting in increased costs, decreases in revenue, and potentially cause us to abandon the opportunity; yields may be less than anticipated as a result of delays in completing projects, costs that exceed budget, higher than expected concessions for lease-up and lower rents than initially estimated; bankruptcy of developers in our development projects could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the development of our communities and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations; we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring such opportunities; we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of an apartment community on schedule, or incur development or construction costs that exceed our original estimates, and we may be unable to charge rents that would compensate for any increase in such costs; occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed apartment community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, preventing us from meeting our profitability goals for that community; 13 when we sell to third parties apartment communities or properties that we developed or renovated, we may be subject to warranty or construction defects that are uninsured or exceed the limit of our insurance; and our failure to successfully enter into a joint venture agreement may prohibit an otherwise advantageous investment if we cannot raise the money through other means. short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents and we may be unable to renew leases or relet units as leases expire. our apartment leases are generally for a term of one year or less. as these leases typically permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the units, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected rates, then our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. legal proceedings that we become involved in from time to time could affect our business. as an owner, operator and developer of multifamily apartment communities, we may become involved in various legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, proceedings related to commercial, development, employment, environmental, securities, shareholder, tenant or tort legal issues, some of which could result in a class action lawsuit. for example, as described in more detail in "legal proceedings" and note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, we are currently a defendant in two class action lawsuits relating to tenant late fee policies at our texas apartment communities. legal proceedings, if decided adversely to or settled by us, and not covered by insurance, could result in liability material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. likewise, regardless of outcome, legal proceedings could result in substantial costs and expenses, affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage and significantly divert the attention of our management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, any pending or future legal proceedings to which we become subject. risks related to our indebtedness and financing activities our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2018 , the amount of our total debt was approximately $4.5 billion . we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with, among other things, our acquisition, development and operating activities. the degree of our leverage creates significant risks, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our funds from operations to servicing our debt and our cash flow may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest; debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution and funds available for acquisitions, development and redevelopment; we may be more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns than our competitors that have less debt; we may be limited in our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions; we may default on our indebtedness, which could result in acceleration of those obligations, assignment of rents and leases and loss of properties to foreclosure; and if one of our subsidiaries defaults, it could trigger a cross default or cross acceleration provision under other indebtedness, which could cause an immediate default or could allow the lenders to declare all funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable. if any one of these events was to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we may be unable to renew, repay or refinance our outstanding debt, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that either secured or unsecured indebtedness will not 14 be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, if at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our apartment communities on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the reit distribution requirements of the code. rising interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we have incurred and expect in the future to incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. interest rates could increase, which could result in higher interest expense on our variable-rate debt or increase interest rates when refinancing maturing fixed-rate debt, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions or cause us to be in default under certain debt instruments. in addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead holders of shares of our common stock to demand a higher yield on their shares from distributions by us, which could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. during 2018, the federal reserve raised the federal funds rate by 0.25 points each quarter, resulting in a range of 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent after the federal reserve's december 2018 meeting. these increases in the federal funds rate and any future increases due to other key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate or inflation, may cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. any continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely impact our financial condition. we currently fund the acquisition and development of apartment communities partially through borrowings (including our revolving credit facility) as well as from other sources such as sales of apartment communities which no longer meet our investment criteria. in addition, we may fund other of our capital requirements through debt. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur, and we may incur more debt in the future. accordingly, subject to limitations on indebtedness set forth in various loan agreements and the indentures governing our senior notes, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service and an increased risk of default on our obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. the restrictive terms of certain of our indebtedness may cause acceleration of debt payments. as of december 31, 2018 , we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $4.5 billion . our indebtedness contains financial covenants as to interest coverage ratios, maximum secured debt, maintenance of unencumbered asset value, and total debt to gross assets, among others, and cross default provisions with other material debt. our ability to comply with these financial covenants may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments or other events adversely impacting us. in the event that an event of default occurs, our lenders may declare borrowings under the respective loan agreements to be due and payable immediately, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect results of operations. from time to time, we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate swap agreements. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a significant amount of debt outstanding. we are currently assigned corporate credit ratings from each of the 15 three ratings agencies based on their evaluation of our creditworthiness. these ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality, and sustainability of cash flows and earnings. if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, we could be required to pay additional interest and fees on our outstanding borrowings. in addition, a downgrade may adversely impact our ability to borrow secured and unsecured debt and otherwise limit our access to capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. financing may not be available and could be dilutive. our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. we and other companies in the real estate industry have experienced limited availability of financing from time to time. restricted lending practices could impact our ability to obtain debt financing. if we issue additional equity securities to obtain additional financing, the interest of our existing shareholders could be diluted. risks related to maa's organization and ownership of its stock maa's ownership limit restricts the transferability of its capital stock. maa's charter limits ownership of its capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of its capital stock, both common and preferred, unless approved by its board of directors. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in it losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of its shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the code, owning 50% or more of its shares. if an investor acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, maa: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on its books; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; will consider the shares held in trust for its benefit; and will either direct the holder to sell the shares and turn over any profit to maa, or maa will redeem the shares. if maa redeems the shares, the holder will be paid a price equal to the lesser of: the principal price paid for the shares by the holder, a price per share equal to the market price (as determined in the manner set forth in its charter) of the applicable capital stock, the market price (as so determined) on the date such holder would, but for the restrictions on transfers set forth in its charter, be deemed to have acquired ownership of the shares, and the maximum price allowed under the tennessee greenmail act (such price being the average of the highest and lowest closing market price for the shares during the 30 trading days preceding the purchase of such shares or, if the holder of such shares has commenced a tender offer or has announced an intention to seek control of maa, during the 30 trading days preceding the commencement of such tender offer or the making of such announcement). the redemption price may be paid, at maa's option, by delivering one common unit (subject to adjustment from time to time in the event of, among other things, stock splits, stock dividends, or recapitalizations affecting its common stock or certain mergers, consolidations or asset transfers by maa) issued by the operating partnership for each excess share being redeemed. if an investor acquires shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: the holder may lose its power to dispose of the shares; the holder may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and the holder may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. 16 future offerings of debt or equity securities, which may rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. if we decide to issue additional debt securities in the future, which would rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. additionally, any equity securities or convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. we and, indirectly, our shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings. thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings. the form, timing and amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations. though our board of directors has a history of declaring dividends in advance of the quarter they are paid, the form, timing and amount of dividend distributions will be declared, and standing practice changed, at the discretion of the board of directors. the form, timing and amount of dividend distributions will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the reit provisions of the code and other factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. our board of directors may modify our dividend policy from time to time. provisions of maa's charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of maa. ownership limit the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of maa by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. preferred stock maa's charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, 868,000 of which have been designated as 8.50% series i cumulative redeemable preferred stock, which we refer to as maa series i preferred stock. in addition to the maa series i preferred stock, the board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any other series of preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of maa, even if a change in control were in maa shareholders' best interests. as of december 31, 2018 , 867,846 shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding, all of which shares were maa series i preferred stock. tennessee anti-takeover statutes as a tennessee corporation, maa is subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire maa and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if maa's acquisition would be in maa shareholders' best interests. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common stock. the market price of shares of common stock of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's common stock may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common stock to go down. in addition, although maa's common stock is listed on the nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's common stock may be lower than the trading volume for companies in other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of maa's common stock. 17 changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to our results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of maa's common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit's equity securities is based primarily upon the market's perception of the reit's growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. for that reason, maa's common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of maa's common stock. in addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to pay distributions to maa's shareholders. our failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of maa's common stock. the stock markets, including the nyse, on which maa lists its common stock, have, at times, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. as a result, the market price of maa's common stock could be similarly volatile, and investors in maa's common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. among the market conditions that may affect the market price of maa's publicly traded securities are the following: our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly and annual operating results; changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; additions and departures of key personnel; inability to access the capital markets; strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, dispositions, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; the issuance of additional shares of maa's common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, including under maa's at-the-market offering programs; the reputation of reits generally and the reputation of reits with portfolios similar to ours; the attractiveness of the securities of reits in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies); an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for maa's common stock; the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; speculation in the press or investment community; actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds; changes in accounting principles; terrorist acts; and general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. risks related to the operating partnership's organization and ownership of op units the operating partnership's existing unitholders have limited approval rights, which may prevent the operating partnership's sole general partner, maa, from completing a change of control transaction that may be in the best interests of all unitholders of the operating partnership and all shareholders of maa. maa may not engage in a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the operating partnership, dissolve the operating partnership or, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, take any action that would result in any unitholder realizing taxable gain, without the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding op units held by holders other than maa or its affiliates, or class a op units. the right of the holders of our class a op units to vote on these transactions could limit maa's ability to complete a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interest of all unitholders of the operating partnership and all shareholders of maa. 18 in certain circumstances, certain of the operating partnership's unitholders must approve the operating partnership's sale of certain properties contributed by the unitholders. in certain circumstances, as detailed in the partnership agreement of the operating partnership, the operating partnership may not sell or otherwise transfer certain properties unless a specified percentage of the limited partners who were partners in the limited partnership holding such properties at the time of its acquisition by us approves such sale or transfer. the exercise of these approval rights by the operating partnership's unitholders could delay or prevent the operating partnership from completing a transaction that may be in the best interest of all unitholders of the operating partnership and all shareholders of maa. maa, its officers and directors have substantial influence over the operating partnership's affairs. maa, as the operating partnership's sole general partner and acting through its officers and directors, has a substantial influence on the operating partnership's affairs. maa, its officers and directors could exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interest of the unitholders of the operating partnership. also, maa owns approximately 96.5% of the op units and as such, will have substantial influence on the outcome of substantially all matters submitted to the operating partnership's unitholders for approval. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common stock, which would affect the redemption price of the op units. the market price of shares of common stock of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's common stock may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common stock to go down, which would reduce the price received upon redemption of any op units, or if maa so elects, the value of maa's common stock received in lieu of cash upon redemption of such op units. in addition, although maa's common stock is listed on the nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's common stock may be lower than the trading volume for companies in other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of maa's common stock. insufficient cash flow from operations or a decline in the market price of maa's common stock may reduce the amount of cash available to the operating partnership to meet its obligations. t he operating partnership is subject to the risk that its cash flow will be insufficient to make payments on its debt and to make distributions to its unitholders, which may cause maa to not have the funds to make distributions to its shareholders. maa's failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future results of operations and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of its shares and thus potentially reduce maa's ability to contribute funds from issuances down to the operating partnership, resulting in a lower level of cash available for investment, to make payments on its debt or to make distributions to its unitholders. risks related to tax laws failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders. if maa fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, maa will be subject to federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction applicable to reits. in addition, unless maa is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, maa would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which it loses its qualification. the additional tax liability resulting from the failure to qualify as a reit would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds available for distribution to maa's shareholders. maa's failure to qualify as a reit also could impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of maa's common stock. maa believes that it is organized and qualified as a reit, and maa intends to operate in a manner that will allow it to continue to qualify as a reit. maa cannot assure, however, that it is qualified or will remain qualified as a reit. this is because qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters 19 and circumstances not entirely within maa's control. in addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of qualification as a reit. even if maa qualifies as a reit, maa will be subject to various federal, state and local taxes, including property taxes and income taxes on taxable income that maa does not timely distribute to its shareholders. in addition, maa may hold certain assets and engage in certain activities that a reit could not engage in directly through its taxable reit subsidiaries, or trss, and those trss will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on their taxable income without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction applicable to reits. furthermore, we have a subsidiary that has elected to be treated as a reit, and if our subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, it is possible that we also would fail to qualify as a reit unless we (or the subsidiary reit) could qualify for certain relief provisions. the qualification of our subsidiary reit as a reit will depend on satisfaction, on an annual or quarterly basis, of numerous requirements set forth in highly technical and complex provisions of the code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. a determination as to whether such requirements are satisfied involves various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. the fact that we hold substantially all of our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements for us. no assurance can be given that our subsidiary reit will qualify as a reit for any particular year. if any reit previously acquired by us failed to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we would incur adverse tax consequences and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. prior to the merger with post properties, post properties operated in a manner intended to allow it to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if post properties, or any other reit previously acquired by maa (each, a "merged reit"), is determined to have lost its reit status at any time prior to its merger with maa, maa would be subject to serious adverse tax consequences, including: maa would be required to pay u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates on the taxable income of such merged reit without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction for the taxable years that the merged reit did not qualify as a reit and for which the statute of limitations period remains open; and maa would be required to pay any federal alternative minimum tax liability of the merged reit and any applicable state and local tax liability, in each case, for all taxable years that remain open under the applicable statute of limitations periods. maa is liable for any tax liability of a merged reit with respect to any periods prior to the merger of such merged reit with maa. if a merged reit failed to qualify as a reit, then in the event of a taxable disposition by maa of an asset previously held by the merged reit during a specified period of up to 5 years following the merger of the merged reit with maa, maa will be subject to corporate income tax with respect to any built-in gain inherent in such asset as of the date of such merger. in addition, unless an applicable statutory relief provision applies, if a merged reit failed to qualify as a reit for a taxable year, then the merged reit would not have been entitled to re-elect to be taxed as a reit until the fifth taxable year following the year during which it was disqualified. furthermore, if both maa and a merged reit were "investment companies" under the "investment company" rules set forth in section 368 of the code at the time of the merger of maa and such merged reit, the failure of maa or such merged reit to have qualified as a reit at the time of their merger could result in such merger being treated as taxable for federal income tax purposes. as a result of all these factors, the failure by a merged reit to have qualified as a reit could jeopardize maa's qualification as a reit and require the operating partnership to provide material amounts of cash to maa to satisfy maa's additional tax liabilities and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on maa's business prospects, financial condition or results of operations and on maa's ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. the operating partnership may fail to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. we believe that the operating partnership qualifies, and has so qualified since its formation, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and not as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. no assurance can be provided, however, that the internal revenue service, or irs, will not challenge the treatment of the operating partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating the operating partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then the taxable income of the operating partnership would be taxable at regular corporate income tax rates. in addition, the treatment of the operating partnership as a corporation would cause maa to fail to qualify as a reit. see "failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a 20 corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders" above. certain dispositions of property by us may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a 100% penalty tax on any gain attributable to the disposition. any gain resulting from a transfer of property that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated for federal income tax purposes as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property would be considered prohibited transactions. whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. as such, the irs may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. if the irs were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes. a safe harbor to the characterization of the disposition of property as a prohibited transaction and the resulting imposition of the 100% tax is available; however, we cannot assure that we will be able to comply with such safe harbor in connection with any property dispositions. the recently enacted legislation informally titled the tax cuts and jobs act and other legislative, regulatory and administrative developments may adversely affect maa or its shareholders. on december 22, 2017, president trump signed into law p.l. 115-97, informally titled the tax cuts and jobs act, or the tax act. the tax act makes major changes to the code, including a number of provisions of the code that affect the taxation of reits and their shareholders. certain provisions of the tax act that may impact us and our shareholders include: temporarily reducing individual u.s. federal income tax rates on ordinary income; the highest individual u.s. federal income tax rate will be reduced from 39.6% to 37% (through taxable years ending in 2025); reducing the maximum corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%; permitting a deduction for certain pass-through business income, including dividends received from reits that are not designated as capital gain dividends or qualified dividend income, which generally will allow individuals, trusts and estates to deduct up to 20% of such amounts, resulting in an effective maximum u.s. federal income tax rate of 29.6% on such dividends (through taxable years ending in 2025); reducing the highest rate of withholding with respect to distributions to non-u.s. shareholders attributable to gains from the sale or exchange of u.s. real property interests from 35% to 21%; limiting the deduction for net operating losses to 80% of taxable income (prior to the application of dividends paid deduction); amending the limitation on the deduction of net interest expense for all businesses, other than certain electing businesses, including real estate businesses (which could adversely affect the taxation of any taxable reit subsidiaries); and eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax. the individual and collective impact of these provisions and other provisions of the tax act on maa and its shareholders is uncertain, and may not become evident for some period of time. in addition, other legislative, regulatory or administrative changes may be enacted or promulgated, either prospectively or with retroactive effect, and may adversely affect maa or its shareholders. maa's shareholders and prospective shareholders should consult their individual tax advisors regarding the implications of the tax act and other potential legislative, regulatory or administrative changes on their investment in maa's capital stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk includes risks that arise from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices and other market changes that affect market sensitive instruments. our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates on our borrowings. as of december 31, 2018 , 28.6% of our total capitalization consisted of borrowings. our interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps, which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. we use our best efforts to have our debt instruments mature across multiple years, which we believe limits our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. we do not 38 enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. as of december 31, 2018 , 74.8% of our outstanding debt was subject to fixed rates after considering related derivative instruments. we regularly review interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for our interest rate swaps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect as of december 31, 2018 (dollars in thousands). 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 total thereafter total fair value liability long-term debt fixed rate $ 40,446 $ 158,281 $ 192,903 $ 368,401 $ 363,731 $ 1,994,399 $ 3,118,161 $ 3,066,546 average interest rate 4.40 % 4.80 % 5.20 % 3.64 % 4.35 % 3.91 % 4.06 % variable rate (1) $ 300,000 $ 690,000 $ 150,000 $ $ $ $ 1,140,000 $ 1,143,795 average interest rate 3.36 % 3.38 % 3.30 % % % % 3.36 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ $ 300,000 $ $ $ $ 300,000 (2) $ 600,000 $ 1,623 average pay rate % 2.32 % % % % 2.91 % 2.62 % (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap agreements. (2) includes six forward rate swaps totaling $300.0 million, which hedge the first 10 years of interest payments on debt we anticipate issuing in 2019.risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, we have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. if any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. economic slowdown in the united states and the related downturn in the housing and real estate markets have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations there has been a significant decline in economic growth, both in the united states and globally, in the second half of 2008 and throughout 2009. the trends in both the real estate industry and the broader united states economy continue to be unfavorable and continue to adversely affect our revenues. the weakened economy and related reduction in spending, falling home prices and mounting job losses, together with the price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the financial and credit markets could, among other things, impede the ability of our tenants and other parties with which we conduct business to perform their contractual obligations, which could lead to an increase in defaults by our tenants and other contracting parties, which could adversely affect our revenues. furthermore, our ability to lease our properties at favorable rates, or at all, is adversely affected by the increase in supply and deterioration in the multifamily market and is dependent upon the overall level of spending in the economy, which is adversely affected by, among other things, job losses and unemployment levels, recession, personal debt levels, the downturn in the housing market, stock market volatility and uncertainty about the future. with regard to our ability to lease our multifamily properties, the increasing rental of excess for-sale condominiums and single family homes, which increases the supply of multifamily units and housing alternatives, may further reduce our ability to lease our multifamily units and further depress rental rates in certain markets. we cannot predict how long demand and other factors in the real estate market will remain unfavorable, but if the markets remain weak or deteriorate further, our ability to lease our properties, our ability to increase or maintain rental rates in certain markets may continue to weaken during 2010. failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to pay distributions to shareholders our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to pay distributions to our shareholders depends on our ability to generate funds from operations in excess of capital expenditure requirements and/or to have 8 table of contents access to the markets for debt and equity financing. funds from operations and the value of our apartment communities may be insufficient because of factors which are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartment units or oversupply of available apartment units in our markets, which might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartment units; conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use; weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rents; inability to initially, or subsequently after lease terminations, rent apartments on favorable economic terms; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; changes in laws including, but not limited to, tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; withdrawal of government support of apartment financing through its financial backing of the federal national mortgage association, or fnma, or the federal home loan mortgage corporation, or freddie mac; an uninsured loss, including those resulting from a catastrophic storm, earthquake, or act of terrorism; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase our acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, we rely on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program (including our existing property expansion developments). while we have sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. our financing could be impacted by negative capital market conditions recently, domestic financial markets have experienced unusual volatility and uncertainty. liquidity has tightened in financial markets, including the investment grade debt, the cmbs, commercial paper, and equity capital markets. a large majority of apartment financing, and as of december 31, 2009, 93% of our outstanding debt, is provided by or credit-enhanced by fnma and freddie mac, which are now under the conservatorship of the u.s. government. we have seen an increase in the volatility of short term interest rates and changes in historic relationships between libor (which is the basis for the majority of the payments to us by our swap counterparties) and the actual interest rate we pay through the fnma discount mortgage backed security, or dmbs, and the freddie mac reference bill programs, which we believe to be temporary. this creates a risk that our interest expense will fluctuate to a greater extent than it has in the past, and it makes forecasting more difficult. were our credit arrangements with prudential mortgage capital, credit-enhanced by fnma, or with financial federal, credit-enhanced by freddie mac, to fail, or their ability 9 table of contents to lend money to finance apartment communities to become impaired, we would have to seek alternative sources of capital, which might not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, any such event would most likely cause our interest costs to rise. this could also cause our swaps to become ineffective, triggering a default in one or more of our credit agreements. if any of the foregoing events were to occur it could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and prospects. various traunches of our credit facilities with fnma and freddie mac mature from 2011 through 2018, and we anticipate that replacement facilities will be at a higher cost and have less attractive terms, if available at all. a change in u.s. government policy with regard to fnma and freddie mac could seriously impact our financial condition the u.s. government has committed preferred equity to fnma and freddie mac, placing them in conservatorship and the treasury department increased fnma and freddie mac portfolio caps which are required to be reduced over time. through expansion of their off-balance sheet lending products (which form the large majority of our borrowing), we believe that fnma and freddie mac balance sheet limitations will not restrict their support of lending to the multifamily industry and to us in particular. statements supporting their involvement in apartment lending by the heads of multifamily lending of fnma, freddie mac, and their regulator have been reiterated. should this support change, it would have a material adverse affect on both us and the multifamily industry, and we would seek alternative sources of funding. this could jeopardize the effectiveness of our interest rate swaps, require us to post collateral up to the value of the interest rate swaps, and either of these occurrences could potentially cause a breach in one or more of our loan covenants, and through reduced loan availability, impact the value of multifamily assets, which could impair the value of our properties. a change in the value of our assets could cause us to experience a cash shortfall, be in default of our loan covenants, or incur a charge for the impairment of assets we borrow on a secured basis from fnma, freddie mac, and regions bank. a significant reduction in the value of our assets could require us to post additional collateral. while we believe that we have significant excess collateral and capacity, future asset values are uncertain. if we were unable to meet a request to add collateral to a credit facility, this would have a material adverse affect on our liquidity and our ability to meet our loan covenants. we may determine that the value of an individual asset, or group of assets, was irrevocably impaired, and that we may need to record a charge to write-down the value of the asset to reflect its current value. debt level, refinancing and loan covenant risk may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and our ability to maintain our status as a reit at december 31, 2009, we had total debt outstanding of $1.4 billion. payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate the apartment communities or pay distributions that are required to be paid in order for us to maintain our qualification as a reit. we currently intend to limit our total debt to a range of approximately 45% to 55% of the undepreciated book value of our assets, although our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels. circumstances may cause us to exceed that target from time-to-time. as of december 31, 2009, our ratio of debt to undepreciated book value was approximately 50%. our board of directors can modify this policy at any time, which could allow us to become more highly leveraged and decrease our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. in addition, we must repay our debt upon maturity, and the inability to access debt or equity capital at attractive rates could adversely affect our financial condition and/or our funds from operations. we rely on fnma and freddie mac, which we refer to as the agencies, for the majority of our debt financing and have agreements with the agencies and with other lenders that require us to comply with certain covenants, including maintaining adequate collateral that is subject to revaluation quarterly. the breach of any one of these covenants would place us in default with our lenders and may have serious consequences on our operations. interest rate hedging may be ineffective we rely on the financial markets to refinance debt maturities, and also are heavily reliant on the agencies, which provide credit or credit enhancement for approximately $1.3 billion of our outstanding debt as of december 31, 2009. the debt is provided under the terms of credit facilities with prudential mortgage 10 table of contents capital (credit-enhanced by fnma) and financial federal (credit-enhanced by freddie mac). we pay fees to the credit facility providers and the agencies plus interest which is based on the fnma dmbs rate, and the freddie mac reference bill rate. the agencies have been placed into conservatorship by the u.s. government (under the supervision of the federal housing finance agency), which has committed $200 billion of capital to each, if needed. the interest rate market for the fnma dmbs rate and the freddie mac reference bill rate, both of which have been highly correlated with libor interest rates, are also an important component of our liquidity and interest rate swap effectiveness. in our experience, the fnma dmbs rate has historically averaged 16 basis points below three-month libor, and the freddie mac reference bill rate has averaged 40 basis points below the associated libor rate, but in the past 28 months the spreads increased significantly and have been more volatile than we have historically seen before recently contracting closer to more normal levels. we believe that the current market illiquidity is an anomaly and that the spreads and the volatility will return to more stable historic levels, but we cannot forecast when or if the uncertainty and volatility in the market may change. continued unusual volatility over a period of time could cause us to lose hedge accounting treatment for our interest rate swaps, resulting in material changes to our consolidated statements of operations and balance sheet, and potentially cause a breach with one of our debt covenants. fluctuations in interest rate spreads between the dmbs and reference bill rates and three-month libor causes ineffectiveness to flow through interest expense in the current period if in an overhedged position, and together with the unrecognized ineffectiveness, reduces the effectiveness of the swaps. we also rely on the credit of the counterparties that provide swaps to hedge the interest rate risk on our credit facilities. we use three major banks to provide nearly 80% of our swaps, jp morgan chase, royal bank of canada, and deutsche bank, all of which have high investment grade ratings from moody and s&amp;p. in the event that one of our swap providers should suffer a significant downgrade of its credit rating or fail, our swaps may become ineffective, in which case the value of the swap would be adjusted to value in the current period, possibly causing a substantial loss sufficient to cause a breach with one of our debt covenants. one or more interest rate swap or cap counterparties could default, causing us significant financial exposure we enter into interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements only with counterparties that are highly rated (generally, aa- or above by standard &amp; poors, or aa3 or above by moody s). we also try to diversify our risk amongst several counterparties. in the event one or more of these counterparties were to go into liquidation or to experience a significant rating downgrade, this could cause us to liquidate the interest rate swap, or lose the interest rate protection of an interest rate cap. liquidation of an interest rate swap could cause us to be required to pay the swap counter party the net present value of the swap, which may represent a significant current period cash charge, possibly sufficient to cause us to breach one or more loan covenants. variable interest rates may adversely affect funds from operations at december 31, 2009, effectively $263 million of our debt bore interest at a variable rate and was not hedged by interest rate swaps or caps. we may incur additional debt in the future that also bears interest at variable rates. variable rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase, which would adversely affect our funds from operations and the amount of cash available to pay distributions to shareholders. our $1.0 billion secured credit facilities with prudential mortgage capital, credit enhanced by fnma, were predominately floating rate facilities during 2009. we also have credit facilities with freddie mac totaling $300 million that are variable rate facilities. at december 31, 2009, a total of $1.3 billion was outstanding under these facilities. these facilities represent the majority of the variable interest rates we were exposed to at december 31, 2009. large portions of the interest rates on these facilities have been hedged by means of a number of interest rate swaps and caps. upon the termination of these swaps and caps, we will be exposed to the risks of varying interest rates. losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage we carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities, and intend to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. we 11 table of contents exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. increasing real estate taxes and insurance costs may negatively impact financial condition as a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations, which can be widely outside of our control. if the costs associated with real estate taxes and insurance should rise, our financial condition could be negatively impacted and our ability to pay our dividend could be affected. property insurance limits may be inadequate and deductibles may be excessive in the event of a catastrophic loss or a series of major losses, and may cause a breach of loan covenants we have a significant proportion of our assets in areas exposed to windstorms and to the new madrid seismic zone. a major wind or earthquake loss, or series of losses, could require that we pay significant deductibles as well as additional amounts above the per occurrence limit of our insurance for these risks. we may then be judged to have breached one or more of our loan covenants, and any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our assets, financial condition, and results of operation. issuances of additional debt or equity may adversely impact our financial condition our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. accordingly, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. we are dependent on key personnel our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain the services of executive officers and other personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry and the loss of several of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on us. new acquisitions may fail to perform as expected and failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel could create inefficiencies we intend to actively acquire and improve multifamily communities for rental operations. we may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired community up to standards established for our intended market position. additionally, to grow successfully, we must be able to apply our experience in managing our existing portfolio of apartment communities to a larger number of properties. we must also be able to integrate new management and operations personnel as our organization grows in size and complexity. failures in either area will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our overall profitability. we may not be able to sell communities when appropriate real estate investments are relatively illiquid and generally cannot be sold quickly. we may not be able to change our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. further, we own seven communities which are subject to restrictions on sale, and are required to be exchanged through a 1031b tax-free exchange, unless we pay the tax liability of the contributing partners. this inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make distributions to our security holders. environmental problems are possible and can be costly federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances 12 table of contents or petroleum product releases at such community. the owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. all of our communities have been the subject of environmental assessments completed by qualified independent environmental consultant companies. these environmental assessments have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. over the past several years, there have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. we cannot be assured that existing environmental assessments of our communities reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of any of our properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist. our ownership limit restricts the transferability of our capital stock our charter limits ownership of our capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of our capital stock, both common and preferred. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in our losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of our shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code, owning 50% or more of our shares. if you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, we: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on our books; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; will consider the shares held in trust for our benefit; and will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any profit to us, or we will redeem the shares. if we redeem the shares, you will be paid a price equal to the lesser of: 1. the price you paid for the shares; or 2. the average of the last reported sales prices on the new york stock exchange on the ten trading days immediately preceding the date fixed for redemption by our board of directors. if you acquire shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: you may lose your power to dispose of the shares; you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. 13 table of contents provisions of our charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us ownership limit the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. preferred stock our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. the board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our shareholders best interests. currently, we have 6,200,000 shares of 8.30% series h cumulative redeemable preferred stock issued and outstanding. tennessee anti-takeover statutes as a tennessee corporation, we are subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders best interests. our investments in joint ventures may involve risks investments in joint ventures may involve risks that may not otherwise be present in our direct investments such as: the potential inability of our joint venture partner to perform; the joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with or adverse to ours; the joint venture partner may take actions contrary to our requests or instructions or contrary to our objectives or policies; and the joint venturers may not be able to agree on matters relating to the property they jointly own. although each joint owner will have a right of first refusal to purchase the other owner interest, in the event a sale is desired, the joint owner may not have sufficient resources to exercise such right of first refusal. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of our common shares the market price of shares of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of our shares may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of our common shares to go down. in addition, although our common shares are listed on the new york stock exchange, the daily trading volume of our shares may be lower than the trading volume for other industries. as a result, our investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares. changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market expectations with regard to our earnings and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of our common shares we believe that the market value of a reit equity securities is based primarily upon the market perception of the reit growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. for that reason, our shares may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our 14 table of contents common shares. in addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to pay distributions to our shareholders. our failure to meet the market expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of our shares. the stock markets, including the new york stock exchange (nyse), on which we list our common shares, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. as a result, the market price of our common shares could be similarly volatile, and investors in our common shares may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. among the market conditions that may affect the market price of our publicly traded securities are the following: our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly operating results; changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; additions and departures of key personnel; strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestments, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; the reputation of reits generally and the reputation of reits with portfolios similar to ours; the attractiveness of the securities of reits in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies); an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for our shares; the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; speculation in the press or investment community; actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds; changes in accounting principles; terrorist acts; and general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management attention and resources. failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation if we failed to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation. the internal revenue service may challenge our qualification as a reit for prior years, and new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit or the federal tax consequences of such qualification. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates, plus any applicable alternative minimum tax. in addition, unless entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. this treatment would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability for the year or years involved. in addition, distributions would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction nor be required to be made in order to preserve reit status. we might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate some of our investments to pay any applicable tax resulting from our failure to qualify as a reit. 15 table of contents compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost the americans with disabilities act, the fair housing act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require us to modify our existing communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. we cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. failure to make required distributions would subject us to income taxation in order to qualify as a reit, each year we must distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividend paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains). to the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. in addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of: 85% of ordinary income for that year; 95% of capital gain net income for that year; and 100% of undistributed taxable income from prior years. differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of the taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. complying with reit requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of income, the nature and diversification of assets, the amounts distributed to shareholders and the ownership of our stock. in order to meet these tests, we may be required to forgo attractive business or investment opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities. thus, compliance with the reit requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates obtainable on our secured borrowings. at december 31, 2009, 46% of our total capitalization consisted of borrowings. our interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps and caps which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. we use our best efforts to ladder fixed rate maturities thereby limiting our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. approximately 81% of our outstanding debt was subject to fixed or capped rates after considering related derivative instruments at december 31, 2009. we regularly review interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for our interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in 000's). 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 total thereafter total fair value long-term debt fixed rate 1 $ 1,827 $ 1,929 $ 2,036 $ 2,149 $ 17,035 $ 56,340 $ 81,316 $ 74,435 average interest rate 5.58 % 5.58 % 5.57 % 5.59 % 5.34 % 5.94 % 5.78 % variable rate 1 $ $ 180,000 $ 80,000 $ 168,629 $ 519,483 $ 370,168 $ 1,318,280 $ 1,192,864 average interest rate 1.74 % 0.78 % 0.77 % 0.76 % 0.80 % 0.87 % 0.81 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ 148,365 $ 158,000 $ 167,800 $ 190,000 $ 144,000 $ 75,000 $ 883,165 $ (55,415 ) average pay rate 5.07 % 4.61 % 4.41 % 4.58 % 4.95 % 4.41 % 4.68 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 5,095 $ 33,731 $ 23,795 $ 7,945 $ 26,720 $ 75,000 $ 172,286 $ 3,430 average pay rate 6.00 % 6.09 % 6.00 % 6.00 % 5.00 % 4.67 % 5.28 % (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements. 41 table of contentsrisk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, we have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. if any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. a change in united states government policy with regard to fnma and freddie mac could seriously impact our financial condition on february 11, 2011, the obama administration released a report to congress which included options, among others, to gradually shrink and eventually shut down fnma and freddie mac. we do not know when or if fnma or freddie mac will restrict their support of lending to the multifamily industry or to us in particular. as of december 31, 2010, 85% of our outstanding debt was borrowed through credit facilities provided by or credit-enhanced by fnma or freddie mac with maturities ranging from 2011 through 2018. while the report to congress recognized the critically important role that fnma and freddie mac play in the housing finance market and committed to ensuring they have sufficient capital to perform under any guarantees issued now or in the future and the ability to meet any of their debt obligations, should they be unable to meet their obligations it would have a material adverse affect on both us and the multifamily industry, and we would seek alternative sources of funding. this could jeopardize the effectiveness of our interest rate swaps, require us to post collateral up to the market value of the interest rate swaps, and either of these occurrences could potentially cause a breach in one or more of our loan covenants, and through reduced loan availability, impact the value of multifamily assets, which could impair the value of our properties. economic slowdown in the united states and downturns in the housing and real estate markets may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations significant declines in economic growth, both in the united states and globally, such that we have experienced since the second half of 2008, may impact our financial condition and results of operations. recently, both the real estate industry and the broader united states economy have experienced unfavorable conditions which adversely affected our revenues. factors such as weakened economies and related reduction in spending, falling home prices and job losses, price volatility, and/or dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the financial and credit markets could, among other things, impede the ability of our tenants and other parties with which we conduct business to perform their contractual obligations, which could lead to an increase in defaults by our tenants and other contracting parties, which could adversely affect our revenues. furthermore, our ability to lease our properties at favorable rates, or at all, is adversely affected by increases in supply and deterioration in multifamily markets and is dependent upon the overall level of spending in the economy, which is adversely affected by, among other things, job losses and unemployment levels, recession, personal debt levels, downturns in the housing market, stock market volatility and uncertainty about the future. with regard to our ability to lease our multifamily properties, the increasing rental of excess for-sale condominiums and single family homes, which increases the supply of multifamily units and housing alternatives, may reduce our ability to lease our multifamily units and depress rental rates in certain markets. when we experience a downturn, we cannot predict how long demand and other factors in the real estate market will remain unfavorable, but if the markets remain weak over extended periods of time or deteriorate significantly, our ability to lease our properties or our ability to increase or maintain rental rates in certain markets may weaken. 9 table of contents failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to pay distributions to shareholders our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to pay distributions to our shareholders depends on our ability to generate funds from operations in excess of capital expenditure requirements and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. funds from operations and the value of our apartment communities may be insufficient because of factors which are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartment units or oversupply of available apartment units in our markets, which might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartment units; conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use; weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rents; inability to initially, or subsequently after lease terminations, rent apartments on favorable economic terms; inability to complete or lease-up development communities on a timely basis, if at all; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; changes in laws including, but not limited to, tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; withdrawal of government support of apartment financing through its financial backing of the federal national mortgage association, or fnma, or the federal home loan mortgage corporation, or freddie mac; an uninsured loss, including those resulting from a catastrophic storm, earthquake, or act of terrorism; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase our acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, we rely on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program (including our existing property expansion developments). while we have sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. our financing could be impacted by negative capital market conditions over the past two and a half years, domestic financial markets have experienced unusual volatility and uncertainty. liquidity tightened in financial markets, including the investment grade debt, the cmbs, commercial paper, and equity capital markets. a large majority of apartment financing, and as of december 31, 2010, 85% of our outstanding debt, was borrowed through credit facilities provided by or credit-enhanced by fnma and freddie mac, which are now under the conservatorship of the united states government, but for which, on february 11, 2011, the obama administration released a report to congress 10 table of contents which included options to gradually shrink and eventually shut down fnma and freddie mac. we have seen an increase in the volatility of short term interest rates and changes in historic relationships between libor (which is the basis for the majority of the payments to us by our swap counterparties) and the actual interest rate we pay through the fnma discount mortgage backed security, or dmbs, and the freddie mac reference bill programs. this creates a risk that our interest expense will fluctuate to a greater extent than it has in the past, and it makes forecasting more difficult. were our credit arrangements with prudential mortgage capital, credit-enhanced by fnma, or with financial federal, credit-enhanced by freddie mac, to fail, or their ability to lend money to finance apartment communities to become impaired or cease, we would have to seek alternative sources of capital, which might not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, any such event would most likely cause our interest costs to rise. this could also cause our interest rate swaps and caps to become ineffective, triggering a default in one or more of our credit agreements. if any of the foregoing events were to occur, it could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and prospects. various traunches of our credit facilities with fnma and freddie mac mature from 2011 through 2018, and we anticipate that replacement facilities will be at a higher cost and have less attractive terms, if available at all. a change in the value of our assets could cause us to experience a cash shortfall, to be in default of our loan covenants, or to incur a charge for the impairment of assets we borrow on a secured basis from fnma, freddie mac, and regions bank. a significant reduction in the value of our assets could require us to post additional collateral. while we believe that we have significant excess collateral and capacity, future asset values are uncertain. if we were unable to meet a request to add collateral to a credit facility, this would have a material adverse affect on our liquidity and our ability to meet our loan covenants. we may determine that the value of an individual asset, or group of assets, was irrevocably impaired, and that we may need to record a charge to write-down the value of the asset to reflect its current value. debt level, refinancing and loan covenant risk may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and our ability to maintain our status as a reit at december 31, 2010, we had total debt outstanding of $1.5 billion. payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate the apartment communities or to pay distributions that are required to be paid in order for us to maintain our qualification as a reit. we currently intend to limit our total debt to a range of approximately 45% to 55% of the undepreciated book value of our assets, although our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels. circumstances may cause us to exceed that target from time-to-time. as of december 31, 2010, our ratio of debt to undepreciated book value was approximately 49%. our board of directors can modify this policy at any time, which could allow us to become more highly leveraged and decrease our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. in addition, we must repay our debt upon maturity, and the inability to access debt or equity capital at attractive rates could adversely affect our financial condition and/or our funds from operations. we rely on fnma and freddie mac, which we refer to as the agencies, for the majority of our debt financing and have agreements with the agencies and with other lenders that require us to comply with certain covenants, including maintaining adequate collateral that is subject to revaluation quarterly. the breach of any one of these covenants would place us in default with our lenders and may have serious consequences on our operations. interest rate hedging may be ineffective we rely on the financial markets to refinance debt maturities, and also are heavily reliant on the agencies, which provided credit or credit enhancement for the majority of our outstanding debt as of december 31, 2010. the debt is provided under the terms of credit facilities with prudential mortgage capital (credit-enhanced by fnma) and financial federal (credit-enhanced by freddie mac). we pay fees to the credit facility providers and the agencies plus interest which is based on the fnma dmbs rate, and the freddie mac reference bill rate. 11 table of contents the interest rate market for the fnma dmbs rate and the freddie mac reference bill rate, both of which have been highly correlated with libor interest rates, are also an important component of our liquidity and interest rate swap and cap effectiveness. in our experience, the fnma dmbs rate has historically averaged 16 basis points below three-month libor, and the freddie mac reference bill rate has averaged 34 basis points below the associated libor rate, but in the past 3 years the spreads increased significantly and have been more volatile than we have historically seen. we cannot forecast when or if the uncertainty and volatility in the market may change. continued unusual volatility over a period of time could cause us to lose hedge accounting treatment for our interest rate swaps and caps, resulting in material changes to our consolidated statements of operations and balance sheet, and potentially cause a breach with one of our debt covenants. fluctuations in interest rate spreads between the dmbs and reference bill rates and three-month libor causes ineffectiveness to flow through interest expense in the current period if we are in an overhedged position, and together with the unrecognized ineffectiveness, reduces the effectiveness of the swaps and caps. we also rely on the credit of the counterparties that provide swaps and caps to hedge the interest rate risk on our credit facilities. we use four major banks to provide approximately 95% of our derivative fair value, all of which have high investment grade ratings from moody and s&amp;p. in the event that one of our derivative providers should suffer a significant downgrade of its credit rating or fail, our swaps or caps may become ineffective, in which case the value of the swap or cap would be adjusted to fair value in the current period, possibly causing a substantial loss sufficient to cause a breach of one of our debt covenants. one or more interest rate swap or cap counterparties could default, causing us significant financial exposure we enter into interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements only with counterparties that are highly rated (a+ or above by standard &amp; poors, or aa3 or above by moody s). we also try to diversify our risk amongst several counterparties. in the event one or more of these counterparties were to go into liquidation or to experience a significant rating downgrade, this could cause us to liquidate the interest rate swap or to lose the interest rate protection of an interest rate cap. liquidation of an interest rate swap could cause us to be required to pay the swap counter party the net present value of the swap, which may represent a significant current period cash charge, possibly sufficient to cause us to breach one or more loan covenants. variable interest rates may adversely affect funds from operations at december 31, 2010, effectively $228 million of our debt bore interest at a variable rate and was not hedged by interest rate swaps or caps. we may incur additional debt in the future that also bears interest at variable rates. variable rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase, which would adversely affect our funds from operations and the amount of cash available to pay distributions to shareholders. our $1.0 billion secured credit facilities with prudential mortgage capital, credit enhanced by fnma, are predominately floating rate facilities. we also have credit facilities with freddie mac totaling $300 million that are variable rate facilities. at december 31, 2010, a total of $1.3 billion was outstanding under these facilities. these facilities represent the majority of the variable interest rates we were exposed to at december 31, 2010. large portions of the interest rates on these facilities have been hedged by means of a number of interest rate swaps and caps. upon the termination of these swaps and caps, we will be exposed to the risks of varying interest rates unless acceptable replacement swaps or caps are obtainable. losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage we carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities and intend to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. we exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. 12 table of contents increasing real estate taxes and insurance costs may negatively impact financial condition as a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations, which can be widely outside of our control. if the costs associated with real estate taxes and insurance should rise, our financial condition could be negatively impacted, and our ability to pay our dividend could be affected. property insurance limits may be inadequate and deductibles may be excessive in the event of a catastrophic loss or a series of major losses, and may cause a breach of loan covenants we have a significant proportion of our assets in areas exposed to windstorms and to the new madrid seismic zone. a major wind or earthquake loss, or series of losses, could require that we pay significant deductibles as well as additional amounts above the per occurrence limit of our insurance for these risks. we may then be judged to have breached one or more of our loan covenants, and any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our assets, financial condition, and results of operation. issuances of additional debt or equity may adversely impact our financial condition our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. accordingly, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. if we issue additional equity securities to obtain additional financing, the interest of our existing shareholders could be diluted. we are dependent on key personnel our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain the services of executive officers and other personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry, and the loss of several of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on us. new acquisitions may fail to perform as expected and, failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel could create inefficiencies we intend to actively acquire and improve multifamily communities for rental operations. we may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired community up to standards established for our intended market position. additionally, to grow successfully, we must be able to apply our experience in managing our existing portfolio of apartment communities to a larger number of properties. we must also be able to integrate new management and operations personnel as our organization grows in size and complexity. failures in either area will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our overall profitability. we may not be able to sell communities when appropriate real estate investments are relatively illiquid and generally cannot be sold quickly. we may not be able to change our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. further, we own seven communities, which are subject to restrictions on sale and are required to be exchanged through a 1031b tax-free exchange, unless we pay the tax liability of the contributing partners. this inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make distributions to our security holders. environmental problems are possible and can be costly federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such community. the owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without 13 table of contents regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. all of our communities have been the subject of environmental assessments completed by qualified independent environmental consultant companies. these environmental assessments have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. over the past several years, there have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. we cannot be assured that existing environmental assessments of our communities reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of any of our properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist. our ownership limit restricts the transferability of our capital stock our charter limits ownership of our capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of our capital stock, both common and preferred. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in our losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of our shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the code, owning 50% or more of our shares. if you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, we: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on our books; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; will consider the shares held in trust for our benefit; and will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any profit to us, or we will redeem the shares. if we redeem the shares, you will be paid a price equal to the lesser of the price you paid for the shares; or the average of the last reported sales prices on the new york stock exchange on the ten trading days immediately preceding the date fixed for redemption by our board of directors. if you acquire shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: you may lose your power to dispose of the shares; you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. provisions of our charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us ownership limit the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. 14 table of contents preferred stock our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. the board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our shareholders best interests. as of december 31, 2010, no shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding. tennessee anti-takeover statutes as a tennessee corporation, we are subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders best interests. our investments in joint ventures may involve risks investments in joint ventures may involve risks that may not otherwise be present in our direct investments such as: the potential inability of our joint venture partner to perform; the joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with or adverse to ours; the joint venture partner may take actions contrary to our requests or instructions or contrary to our objectives or policies; and the joint venturers may not be able to agree on matters relating to the property they jointly own. although each joint owner will have a right of first refusal to purchase the other owner interest, in the event a sale is desired, the joint owner may not have sufficient resources to exercise such right of first refusal. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of our common shares the market price of shares of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of our shares may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of our common shares to go down. in addition, although our common shares are listed on the new york stock exchange, the daily trading volume of our shares may be lower than the trading volume for other industries. as a result, our investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares. changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market expectations with regard to our earnings and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of our common shares we believe that the market value of a reit equity securities is based primarily upon the market perception of the reit growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. for that reason, our shares may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our common shares. in addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to pay distributions to our shareholders. our failure to meet the market expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of our shares. the stock markets, including the new york stock exchange, or nyse, on which we list our common shares, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. as a result, the market price of our common shares could be similarly volatile, and investors in our common shares may experience a decrease in 15 table of contents the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. among the market conditions that may affect the market price of our publicly traded securities are the following: our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly and annual operating results; changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; additions and departures of key personnel; inability to access the capital markets; strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, dispositions, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, including under our at-the-market controlled equity offering programs; the reputation of reits generally and the reputation of reits with portfolios similar to ours; the attractiveness of the securities of reits in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies); an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for our shares; the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; speculation in the press or investment community; actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds; changes in accounting principles; terrorist acts; and general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management attention and resources. failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation if we failed to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation. the internal revenue service may challenge our qualification as a reit for prior years, and new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit or the federal tax consequences of such qualification. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates, plus any applicable alternative minimum tax. in addition, unless entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. this treatment would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability for the year or years involved. in addition, distributions would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction nor be required to be made in order to preserve reit status. we might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate some of our investments to pay any applicable tax resulting from our failure to qualify as a reit. 16 table of contents compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost the americans with disabilities act, the fair housing act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require us to modify our existing communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. we cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. failure to make required distributions would subject us to income taxation in order to qualify as a reit, each year we must distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividend paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains). to the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. in addition, we would incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of: 85% of ordinary income for that year; 95% of capital gain net income for that year; and 100% of undistributed taxable income from prior years. differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of the taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. complying with reit requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of income, the nature and diversification of assets, the amounts distributed to shareholders and the ownership of our stock. in order to meet these tests, we may be required to forgo attractive business or investment opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities. thus, compliance with the reit requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates obtainable on our secured borrowings. at december 31, 2010, 39% of our total capitalization consisted of borrowings. our interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps and caps which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. we use our best efforts to ladder fixed rate maturities thereby limiting our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. approximately 85% of our outstanding debt was subject to fixed or capped rates after considering related derivative instruments at december 31, 2010. we regularly review interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for our interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in 000's). 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 total thereafter total fair value long-term debt fixed rate 1 $ 3,839 $ 4,217 $ 4,494 $ 19,488 $ 37,191 $ 197,684 $ 266,913 $ 238,199 average interest rate 4.97 % 5.00 % 5.01 % 5.23 % 6.00 % 4.70 % 4.93 % variable rate 1 $ 180,000 $ 80,000 $ 178,629 $ 519,483 $ 135,200 $ 139,968 $ 1,233,280 $ 1,151,449 average interest rate 0.85 % 0.84 % 0.84 % 0.88 % 1.15 % 0.84 % 0.89 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ 158,000 $ 167,800 $ 190,000 $ 144,000 $ 75,000 $ $ 734,800 $ (48,936 ) average pay rate 4.61 % 4.41 % 4.58 % 4.95 % 4.41 % 0.00 % 4.60 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 33,731 $ 23,795 $ 7,945 $ 40,180 $ 40,000 $ 125,000 $ 270,651 $ 3,641 average pay rate 6.09 % 6.00 % 6.00 % 4.83 % 4.50 % 4.60 % 4.97 % (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements.risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, we have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impair our business operations. if any of these risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could suffer, the market price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. risks related to our real estate investments and our operations economic slowdown in the united states and downturns in the housing and real estate markets may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations there have been significant declines in economic growth, both in the united states and globally. both the real estate industry and the broader united states economy have experienced unfavorable conditions which adversely affected our revenues. although our industry and the united states economy showed signs of improvement in 2010 and 2011, we cannot accurately predict that market conditions will continue to improve in the near future or that our financial condition and results of operations will not continue to be adversely affected. factors such as weakened economies and related reduction in spending, falling home prices and job losses, price volatility, and/or dislocations and liquidity disruptions in the financial and credit markets could, among other things, impede the ability of our tenants and other parties with which we conduct business to perform their contractual obligations, which could lead to an increase in defaults by our tenants and other contracting parties, which could adversely affect our revenues. furthermore, our ability to lease our properties at favorable rates, or at all, is adversely affected by increases in supply and deterioration in multifamily markets and is dependent upon the overall level of spending in the economy, which is adversely affected by, among other things, job losses and unemployment levels, recession, personal debt levels, downturns in the housing market, stock market volatility and uncertainty about the future. with regard to our ability to lease our multifamily properties, the increasing rental of excess for-sale condominiums and single family homes, which increases the supply of multifamily units and housing alternatives, may reduce our ability to lease our multifamily units and depress rental rates in certain markets. when we experience a downturn, we cannot predict how long demand and other factors in the real estate market will remain unfavorable, but if the markets remain weak over extended periods of time or deteriorate significantly, our ability to lease our properties or our ability to increase or maintain rental rates in certain markets may weaken. failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to pay distributions to shareholders our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to pay distributions to our shareholders depends on our ability to generate funds from operations in excess of capital expenditure requirements and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. funds from operations and the value of our apartment communities may be insufficient because of factors which are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: 14 &middot; competition from other apartment communities; &middot; overbuilding of new apartment units or oversupply of available apartment units in our markets, which might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartment units; &middot; conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use; &middot; weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; &middot; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rents; &middot; inability to initially, or subsequently after lease terminations, rent apartments on favorable economic terms; &middot; inability to complete or lease-up development communities on a timely basis, if at all; &middot; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; &middot; changes in laws including, but not limited to, tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; &middot; withdrawal of government support of apartment financing through its financial backing of the federal national mortgage association, or fnma, or the federal home loan mortgage corporation, or freddie mac; &middot; an uninsured loss, including those resulting from a catastrophic storm, earthquake, or act of terrorism; &middot; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase our acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); and &middot; the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, we rely on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program (including our existing property expansion developments). while we have sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. we may be adversely affected by new laws and regulations the current united states administration and congress have enacted, or called for consideration of, proposals relating to a variety of issues, including with respect to health care, financial regulation reform, climate control, executive compensation and others. we believe that these and other potential proposals could have varying degrees of impact on us ranging from minimal to material. at this time, we are unable to predict with certainty what level of impact specific proposals could have on us. 15 certain rulemaking and administrative efforts that may have an impact on us focus principally on the areas perceived as contributing to the global financial crisis and the continuing economic downturn. these initiatives have created a degree of uncertainty regarding the basic rules governing the real estate industry and many other businesses that is unprecedented in the united states at least since the wave of lawmaking and regulatory reform that followed in the wake of the great depression. the federal legislative response in this area has culminated most recently in the enactment on july 21, 2010 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act, or the dodd-frank act. many of the provisions of the dodd-frank act have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates and will require extensive rulemaking by regulatory authorities; thus, the impact on us may not be known for an extended period of time. the dodd-frank act, including future rules implementing its provisions and the interpretation of those rules, along with other legislative and regulatory proposals that are proposed or pending in the united states congress, may limit our revenues, impose fees or taxes on us, and/or intensify the regulatory framework in which we operate in ways that are not currently identifiable. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure in particular, including certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, have created uncertainty for public companies like ours and could significantly increase the costs and risks associated with accessing the united states public markets. because we are committed to maintaining high standards of internal control over financial reporting, corporate governance and public disclosure, our management team will need to devote significant time and financial resources to comply with these evolving standards for public companies. we intend to continue to invest appropriate resources to comply with both existing and evolving standards, and this investment has resulted and will likely continue to result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue generating activities to compliance activities. we are dependent on key personnel our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain the services of executive officers and other personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry, and the loss of several of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on us. new acquisitions may fail to perform as expected, and failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel could create inefficiencies we intend to actively acquire and improve multifamily communities for rental operations. we may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired community up to standards established for our intended market position. additionally, to grow successfully, we must be able to apply our experience in managing our existing portfolio of apartment communities to a larger number of properties. we must also be able to integrate new management and operations personnel as our organization grows in size and complexity. failures in either area will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our overall profitability. we may not be able to sell communities when appropriate real estate investments are relatively illiquid and generally cannot be sold quickly. we may not be able to change our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. further, we own seven communities, which are subject to restrictions on sale and are required to be exchanged through a 1031b tax-free exchange, unless we pay the tax liability of the contributing partners. this inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make distributions to our security holders. 16 environmental problems are possible and can be costly federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such community. the owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. all of our communities have been the subject of environmental assessments completed by qualified independent environmental consultant companies. these environmental assessments have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. over the past several years, there have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. we cannot be assured that existing environmental assessments of our communities reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of any of our properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist. changes in the system for establishing united states accounting standards may materially and adversely affect our reported results of operations accounting for public companies in the united states has historically been conducted in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect in the united states, or gaap. gaap is established by the financial accounting standards board, or fasb, an independent body whose standards are recognized by the sec as authoritative for publicly held companies. the international accounting standards board, or iasb, is a london-based independent board established in 2001 and charged with the development of international financial reporting standards, or ifrs. ifrs generally reflects accounting practices that prevail in europe and in developed nations around the world. ifrs differs in material respects from gaap. among other things, ifrs has historically relied more on &ldquo;fair value&rdquo; models of accounting for assets and liabilities than gaap. &ldquo;fair value&rdquo; models are based on periodic revaluation of assets and liabilities, often resulting in fluctuations in such values as compared to gaap, which relies more frequently on historical cost as the basis for asset and liability valuation. the sec has proposed the mandatory adoption of ifrs by united states public companies possibly starting in 2015. it is unclear at this time how the sec will propose that gaap and ifrs be harmonized if the proposed change is adopted. in addition, switching to a new method of accounting and adopting ifrs will be a complex undertaking. we may need to develop new systems and controls based on the principles of ifrs. since these are new endeavors, and the precise requirements of the pronouncements ultimately adopted are not now known, the magnitude of costs associated with this conversion are uncertain. 17 we are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of ifrs on our financial position and results of operations. such evaluation cannot be completed, however, without more clarity regarding the specific ifrs standards that will be adopted. until there is more certainty with respect to the ifrs standards to be adopted, prospective investors should consider that our conversion to ifrs could have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations. losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage we carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities and intend to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. we exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. increasing real estate taxes and insurance costs may negatively impact financial condition as a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations, which can be widely outside of our control. if the costs associated with real estate taxes and insurance should significantly rise, our financial condition could be negatively impacted, and our ability to pay our dividend could be affected. we may experience increased costs arising from health care reform in march 2010, the united states government enacted comprehensive health care reform legislation which, among other things, includes guaranteed coverage requirements, eliminates pre-existing condition exclusions and annual and lifetime maximum limits, restricts the extent to which policies can be rescinded and imposes new and significant taxes on health insurers and health care benefits. the legislation imposes implementation effective dates beginning in 2010 and extending through 2020, and many of the changes require additional guidance from government agencies or federal regulations. several states have challenged the constitutionality of certain provisions of the health care reform legislation, and many of these challenges are still pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions, including the united states supreme court. therefore, due to the phased-in nature of the implementation, the lack of interpretive guidance, and the pending court challenges to this legislation, it is difficult to determine at this time what impact the health care reform legislation will have on our financial results. possible adverse effects of the health reform legislation include increased costs, exposure to expanded liability and requirements for us to revise ways in which we provide healthcare and other benefits to our employees. in addition, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 18 property insurance limits may be inadequate, and deductibles may be excessive in the event of a catastrophic loss or a series of major losses, which may cause a breach of loan covenants we have a significant proportion of our assets in areas exposed to windstorms and to the new madrid seismic zone. a major wind or earthquake loss, or series of losses, could require that we pay significant deductibles as well as additional amounts above the per occurrence limit of our insurance for these risks. we may then be judged to have breached one or more of our loan covenants, and any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our assets, financial condition, and results of operation. compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost the americans with disabilities act, the fair housing act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require us to modify our existing communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. we cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. development and construction risks could impact our profitability currently, we have two development communities and a second phase to an existing community under construction totaling 950 units as of december 31, 2011. no units for the development projects were completed as of december 31, 2011. our development and construction activities are subject to the following risks: &middot; we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs, could delay initial occupancy dates for all or a portion of a development community, and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project for which we are unable to obtain permits or authorizations; &middot; yields may be less than anticipated as a result of delays in completing projects, costs that exceed budget and/or higher than expected concessions for lease up and lower rents than pro forma; &middot; bankruptcy of developers in our development projects could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the development of our communities and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations; &middot; we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring such opportunities; 19 &middot; we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of a community on schedule, or incur development or construction costs that exceed our original estimates, and we may be unable to charge rents that would compensate for any increase in such costs; &middot; occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, preventing us from meeting our profitability goals for that community; and &middot; when we sell to third parties communities or properties that we developed or renovated, we may be subject to warranty or construction defect that are uninsured or exceed the limit of our insurance. risks related to our indebtedness and financing activities a change in united states government policy with regard to fnma and freddie mac could seriously impact our financial condition on february 11, 2011, the obama administration released a report to congress which included options, among others, to gradually shrink and eventually shut down fnma and freddie mac. in august 2011, standard &amp; poor&rsquo;s rating services downgraded the credit ratings of fnma and freddie mac from aaa to aa+. we do not know when or if fnma or freddie mac will restrict their support of lending to the multifamily industry or to us in particular. as of december 31, 2011, 69% of our outstanding debt was borrowed through credit facilities provided by or credit-enhanced by fnma or freddie mac with agency rate-based maturities ranging from 2012 through 2018. while the report to congress recognized the critically important role that fnma and freddie mac play in the housing finance market and committed to ensuring they have sufficient capital to perform under any guarantees issued now or in the future and the ability to meet any of their debt obligations, should they be unable to meet their obligations it would have a material adverse effect on both us and the multifamily industry, and we would seek alternative sources of funding. this could jeopardize the effectiveness of our interest rate swaps, require us to post collateral up to the market value of the interest rate swaps, and either of these occurrences could potentially cause a breach in one or more of our loan covenants, and through reduced loan availability, impact the value of multifamily assets, which could impair the value of our properties. our financing could be impacted by negative capital market conditions over the past three and a half years, domestic financial markets have experienced unusual volatility and uncertainty. liquidity tightened in financial markets, including the investment grade debt, the cmbs, commercial paper, and equity capital markets. a large majority of apartment financing, and as of december 31, 2011, 69% of our outstanding debt, was borrowed through credit facilities provided by or credit-enhanced by fnma and freddie mac, which are now under the conservatorship of the united states government, but for which, on february 11, 2011, the obama administration released a report to congress which included options to gradually shrink and eventually shut down fnma and freddie mac. we have seen an increase in the volatility of short term interest rates and changes in historic relationships between libor (which is the basis for the majority of the payments to us by our swap counterparties) and the actual interest rate we pay through the fnma discount mortgage backed security, or dmbs, and the freddie mac reference bill programs. this creates a risk that our interest expense will fluctuate to a greater extent than it has in the past, and it makes forecasting more difficult. were our credit arrangements with prudential mortgage capital, credit-enhanced by fnma, or with financial federal, credit-enhanced by freddie mac, to fail, or their ability to lend money to finance apartment communities to become impaired or cease, we would have to seek alternative sources of capital, which might not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, any such event would most likely cause our interest costs to rise. this could also cause our interest rate swaps and caps to become ineffective, triggering a default in one or more of our credit agreements. if any of the foregoing events were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and prospects. 20 various agency rate-based traunches of our credit facilities with fnma and freddie mac mature from 2012 through 2018, and we anticipate that replacement financing, whether with fnma, freddie mac, or other options in the financial markets, will be at a higher cost. a change in the value of our assets could cause us to experience a cash shortfall, to be in default of our loan covenants, or to incur a charge for the impairment of assets we borrow on a secured basis from fnma, freddie mac, and on an unsecured basis from a syndicate of banks led by key bank. a significant reduction in the value of our assets could require us to post additional collateral. while we believe that we have significant excess collateral and capacity, future asset values are uncertain. if we were unable to meet a request to add collateral to a credit facility, this would have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to meet our loan covenants. we may determine that the value of an individual asset, or group of assets, was irrevocably impaired, and that we may need to record a charge to write-down the value of the asset to reflect its current value. debt level, refinancing and loan covenant risk may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and our ability to maintain our status as a reit at december 31, 2011, we had total debt outstanding of $1.65 billion. payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate the apartment communities or to pay distributions that are required to be paid in order for us to maintain our qualification as a reit. we currently intend to limit our total debt to a range of approximately 45% to 55% of the undepreciated book value of our assets, although our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels. our net-debt to undepreciated book value is limited to 60% by our debt covenants. as of december 31, 2011, our ratio of net-debt to undepreciated book value was approximately 46%. our board of directors can modify this policy at any time, which could allow us to become more highly leveraged and decrease our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. in addition, we must repay our debt upon maturity, and the inability to access debt or equity capital at attractive rates could adversely affect our financial condition and/or our funds from operations. we rely on fnma and freddie mac, which we refer to as the agencies, for the majority of our debt financing and have agreements with the agencies and with other lenders that require us to comply with certain covenants, including maintaining adequate collateral that is subject to revaluation annually. the breach of any one of these covenants would place us in default with our lenders and may have serious consequences on our operations. interest rate hedging may be ineffective we rely on the financial markets to refinance debt maturities, and also rely on the agencies, which provided credit or credit enhancement for the majority of our outstanding debt as of december 31, 2011. the debt is provided under the terms of credit facilities with prudential mortgage capital (credit-enhanced by fnma) and financial federal (credit-enhanced by freddie mac). we pay fees to the credit facility providers and the agencies plus interest which is based on the fnma dmbs rate, and the freddie mac reference bill rate. 21 the interest rate market for the fnma dmbs rate and the freddie mac reference bill rate, both of which have been highly correlated with libor interest rates, are also an important component of our liquidity and interest rate swap and cap effectiveness. in our experience, the fnma dmbs rate has historically averaged 16 basis points below three-month libor, and the freddie mac reference bill rate has averaged 32 basis points below the associated libor rate, but in the past 3 years the spreads increased significantly and have been more volatile than we have historically seen. we cannot forecast when or if the uncertainty and volatility in the market may change. continued unusual volatility over a period of time could cause us to lose hedge accounting treatment for our interest rate swaps and caps, resulting in material changes to our consolidated statements of operations and balance sheet, and potentially cause a breach with one of our debt covenants. fluctuations in interest rate spreads between the dmbs and reference bill rates and three-month libor causes ineffectiveness to flow through interest expense in the current period if we are in an overhedged position, and together with the unrecognized ineffectiveness, reduces the effectiveness of the swaps and caps. we also rely on the credit of the counterparties that provide swaps and caps to hedge the interest rate risk on our credit facilities. we use four major banks to provide approximately 98% of our derivative fair value, all of which have investment grade ratings from moody&rsquo;s and s&amp;p. in the event that one of our derivative providers should suffer a significant downgrade of its credit rating or fail, our swaps or caps may become not effective, in which case the value of the swap or cap would be recorded in earnings, possibly causing a substantial loss sufficient to cause a breach of one of our debt covenants. one or more interest rate swap or cap counterparties could default, causing us significant financial exposure we enter into interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements only with counterparties that are highly rated (a or above by standard &amp; poors, or aa3 or above by moody&rsquo;s). we also try to diversify our risk amongst several counterparties. in the event one or more of these counterparties were to go into liquidation or to experience a significant rating downgrade, this could cause us to liquidate the interest rate swap or to lose the interest rate protection of an interest rate cap. liquidation of an interest rate swap could cause us to be required to pay the swap counter party the net present value of the swap, which may represent a significant current period cash charge, possibly sufficient to cause us to breach one or more loan covenants. variable interest rates may adversely affect funds from operations at december 31, 2011, effectively $249 million of our debt bore interest at a variable rate and was not hedged by interest rate swaps or caps. we may incur additional debt in the future that also bears interest at variable rates. variable rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase, which would adversely affect our funds from operations and the amount of cash available to pay distributions to shareholders. our $964 million secured credit facilities with prudential mortgage capital, credit enhanced by fnma, are predominately floating rate facilities. we also have credit facilities with freddie mac totaling $200 million that are variable rate facilities. at december 31, 2011, a total of $1.1 billion was outstanding under these facilities. these facilities represent the majority of the variable interest rates we were exposed to at december 31, 2011. large portions of the interest rates on these facilities have been hedged by means of a number of interest rate swaps and caps. upon the termination of these swaps and caps, we will be exposed to the risks of varying interest rates unless acceptable replacement swaps or caps are obtainable. 22 issuances of additional debt or equity may adversely impact our financial condition our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. accordingly, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. if we issue additional equity securities to obtain additional financing, the interest of our existing shareholders could be diluted. risks related to our organization and ownership of our stock our ownership limit restricts the transferability of our capital stock our charter limits ownership of our capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of our capital stock, both common and preferred. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in our losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of our shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the code, owning 50% or more of our shares. if you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, we: &middot; will consider the transfer to be null and void; &middot; will not reflect the transaction on our books; &middot; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; &middot; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; &middot; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; &middot; will consider the shares held in trust for our benefit; and &middot; will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any profit to us, or we will redeem the shares. if we redeem the shares, you will be paid a price equal to the lesser of the price you paid for the shares; or the average of the last reported sales prices on the new york stock exchange on the ten trading days immediately preceding the date fixed for redemption by our board of directors. if you acquire shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: &middot; you may lose your power to dispose of the shares; &middot; you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and &middot; you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. 23 provisions of our charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us ownership limit the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. preferred stock our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. the board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our shareholders&rsquo; best interests. as of december 31, 2011, no shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding. tennessee anti-takeover statutes as a tennessee corporation, we are subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders&rsquo; best interests. our investments in joint ventures may involve risks investments in joint ventures may involve risks that may not otherwise be present in our direct investments such as: &middot; the potential inability of our joint venture partner to perform; &middot; the joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with or adverse to ours; &middot; the joint venture partner may take actions contrary to our requests or instructions or contrary to our objectives or policies; and &middot; the joint venturers may not be able to agree on matters relating to the property they jointly own. although each joint owner will have a right of first refusal to purchase the other owner&rsquo;s interest, in the event a sale is desired, the joint owner may not have sufficient resources to exercise such right of first refusal. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of our common shares the market price of shares of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of our shares may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of our common shares to go down. in addition, although our common shares are listed on the new york stock exchange, or the nyse, the daily trading volume of our shares may be lower than the trading volume for other industries. as a result, our investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of the shares. 24 changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market&rsquo;s expectations with regard to our earnings and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of our common shares we believe that the market value of a reit&rsquo;s equity securities is based primarily upon the market&rsquo;s perception of the reit&rsquo;s growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. for that reason, our shares may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our common shares. in addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to pay distributions to our shareholders. our failure to meet the market&rsquo;s expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of our shares. the stock markets, including the nyse, on which we list our common shares, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. as a result, the market price of our common shares could be similarly volatile, and investors in our common shares may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. among the market conditions that may affect the market price of our publicly traded securities are the following: &middot; our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; &middot; actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly and annual operating results; &middot; changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; &middot; publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts; &middot; additions and departures of key personnel; &middot; inability to access the capital markets; &middot; strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, dispositions, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; &middot; the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, including under our at-the-market controlled equity offering programs; &middot; the reputation of reits generally and the reputation of reits with portfolios similar to ours; &middot; the attractiveness of the securities of reits in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies); &middot; an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for our shares; &middot; the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry; &middot; speculation in the press or investment community; 25 &middot; actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds; &middot; changes in accounting principles; &middot; terrorist acts; and &middot; general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management&rsquo;s attention and resources. risks related to tax laws failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation if we failed to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation. the internal revenue service may challenge our qualification as a reit for prior years, and new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit or the federal tax consequences of such qualification. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates, plus any applicable alternative minimum tax. in addition, unless entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. this treatment would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability for the year or years involved. in addition, distributions would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction nor be required to be made in order to preserve reit status. we might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate some of our investments to pay any applicable tax resulting from our failure to qualify as a reit. failure to make required distributions would subject us to income taxation in order to qualify as a reit, each year we must distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividend paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains). to the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. in addition, we would incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of: &middot; 85% of ordinary income for that year; &middot; 95% of capital gain net income for that year; and &middot; 100% of undistributed taxable income from prior years. differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of the taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. 26 complying with reit requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of income, the nature and diversification of assets, the amounts distributed to shareholders and the ownership of our stock. in order to meet these tests, we may be required to forgo attractive business or investment opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities. thus, compliance with the reit requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates obtainable on our borrowings. at december 31, 2011, 39% of our total capitalization consisted of borrowings. our interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps and caps which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. we use our best efforts to ladder fixed rate maturities thereby limiting our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. approximately 84% of our outstanding debt was subject to fixed or capped rates after considering related derivative instruments at december 31, 2011. we regularly review interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for our interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in 000's). total fair 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total value long-term debt fixed rate (1) $ 4,091 $ 4,450 $ 19,441 $ 37,133 $ 3,322 $ 469,570 $ 538,008 $ 560,185 average interest rate 4.95% 4.95% 5.22% 5.99% 4.60% 4.92% 5.00% variable rate (1) $ 64,411 $ 202,653 $ 427,968 $ 135,200 $ 80,000 $ 201,515 $ 1,111,747 $ 1,052,711 average interest rate 0.69% 0.69% 0.69% 1.01% 0.69% 0.80% 0.75% interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ 167,800 $ 190,000 $ 144,000 $ 75,000 $ - $ - $ 576,800 $ (33,095 ) average pay rate 4.41% 4.58% 4.95% 4.41% 0.00% 0.00% 4.60% interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 23,795 $ 7,945 $ 59,631 $ 40,000 $ 89,280 $ 50,000 $ 270,651 $ 1,018 average pay rate 6.00% 6.00% 4.72% 4.50% 4.88% 4.50% 4.85% (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements. 50quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates obtainable on its secured and unsecured borrowings. at december 31, 2002, 54% of the company total capitalization consisted of borrowings. the company interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower its overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, the company manages its exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for its borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments to the extent that reasonably favorable rates are obtainable with such arrangements and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and treasury locks to mitigate its interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or to effectively lock the interest rate on a portion of its variable debt. the company does not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for trading purposes. approximately 83% of the company outstanding debt was subject to fixed rates with a weighted average of 6.6% at december 31, 2002. the company regularly reviews interest rate exposure on its outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. the table below provides information about the company financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for interest rate swaps and the company interest rate cap, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and cap and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in 000 s). 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 total thereafter total fair value long - term debt fixed rate* $ 151,057 $ 71,168 $ $ 59,162 $ $ 223,524 $ 504,911 $ 470,379 average interest rate 6.50 % 7.03 % 0.00 % 6.17 % 0.00 % 6.90 % 6.71 % variable rate* $ 10,000 $ 503 $ $ $ $ 288,289 $ 298,792 $ 298,792 average interest rate 2.69 % 2.73 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 2.12 % 2.14 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ 25,000 $ $ 50,000 $ 25,000 $ 42,800 $ 16,990 $ 159,790 $ (28,100 ) average pay rate 7.17 % 0.00 % 6.80 % 7.39 % 5.04 % 5.15 % 5.18 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ $ $ $ $ 6,805 $ $ 6,805 $ 16 average pay rate 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 6.00 % 0.00 % 6.00 % ______________ * excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates obtainable on its secured and unsecured borrowings. at december 31, 2003, 50% of the company total capitalization consisted of borrowings. the company interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower its overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, the company manages its exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for its borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments to the extent that reasonably favorable rates are obtainable with such arrangements and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and treasury locks to mitigate its interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or to effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of its variable debt or on future refinancings. the company does not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for trading purposes. approximately 77% of the company outstanding debt was subject to fixed rates with a weighted average of 6.5% at december 31, 2003. the company regularly reviews interest rate exposure on its outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. 29 the table below provides information about the company financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for interest rate swaps and the company interest rate cap, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and cap and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in 000 s). 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 total thereafter total fair value long-term debt fixed rate* $ 71,168 $ - $ 24,658 $ - $ 34,160 $ 255,819 $ 385,805 $ 368,103 average interest rate 7.03 % 0.00 % 6.34 % 0.00 % 6.90 % 7.07 % 7.00 % variable rate* $ 20,000 $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 546,136 $ 566,136 $ 566,136 average interest rate 1.66 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 1.88 % 1.87 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ - $ 75,000 $ 25,000 $ 92,800 $ 74,935 $ 115,000 $ 382,735 $ (25,455 ) average pay rate 0.00 % 6.57 % 7.39 % 5.81 % 5.41 % 4.97 % 5.73 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ - $ - $ - $ 6,805 $ - $ - $ 6,805 $ 7 average pay rate 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 6.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 6.00 % *excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates obtainable on its secured and unsecured borrowings. at december 31, 2004, 48.6% of the company total capitalization consisted of borrowings. the company interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower its overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, the company manages its exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for its borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments to the extent that reasonably favorable rates are obtainable with such arrangements and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, and caps to mitigate its interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or to effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of its variable debt or on future refinancings. the company does not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. approximately 75% of the company outstanding debt was subject to fixed rates after considering related derivative instruments with a weighted average of 6.2% at december 31, 2004. after considering the $50 million forward interest rate swap which becomes operative in may 2005, approximately 79% of the company debt was fixed or hedged by interest rate swaps or caps at december 31, 2004. the company regularly reviews interest rate exposure on its outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. 29 the table below provides information about the company financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for the company interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in 000 s). 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 total thereafter total fair value long-term debt fixed rate (1) $ 24,262 $ 24,591 $ 116,579 $ 65,000 $ 59,890 $ 290,322 $ 240,519 average interest rate 2.79 % 6.33 % 6.57 % 7.71 % 6.10 % 6.39 % variable rate (1) $ 20,000 $ 12,262 $ 40,000 $ 720,889 $ 793,151 $ 793,151 average interest rate 2.83 % 4.50 % 3.42 % 2.99 % 3.03 % interest rate swaps (2) variable to fixed $ 75,000 $ 25,000 $ 92,800 $ 74,935 $ 35,230 $ 266,000 $ 568,965 $ (14,598 ) average pay rate 6.67 % 7.49 % 5.89 % 5.46 % 3.88 % 5.20 % 5.56 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 6,805 $ 15,770 $ 22,575 $ 66 average pay rate 6.00 % 6.00 % 6.00 % (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements. (2) includes the company forward interest rate swap agreement.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates obtainable on its secured and unsecured borrowings. at december 31, 2004, 48.6% of the company total capitalization consisted of borrowings. the company interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower its overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, the company manages its exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for its borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments to the extent that reasonably favorable rates are obtainable with such arrangements and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, and caps to mitigate its interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or to effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of its variable debt or on future refinancings. the company does not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. approximately 75% of the company outstanding debt was subject to fixed rates after considering related derivative instruments with a weighted average of 6.2% at december 31, 2004. after considering the $50 million forward interest rate swap which becomes operative in may 2005, approximately 79% of the company debt was fixed or hedged by interest rate swaps or caps at december 31, 2004. the company regularly reviews interest rate exposure on its outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. 29 the table below provides information about the company financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for the company interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in 000 s). 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 total thereafter total fair value long-term debt fixed rate (1) $ 24,262 $ 24,591 $ 116,579 $ 65,000 $ 59,890 $ 290,322 $ 240,519 average interest rate 2.79 % 6.33 % 6.57 % 7.71 % 6.10 % 6.39 % variable rate (1) $ 20,000 $ 12,262 $ 40,000 $ 720,889 $ 793,151 $ 793,151 average interest rate 2.83 % 4.50 % 3.42 % 2.99 % 3.03 % interest rate swaps (2) variable to fixed $ 75,000 $ 25,000 $ 92,800 $ 74,935 $ 35,230 $ 266,000 $ 568,965 $ (14,598 ) average pay rate 6.67 % 7.49 % 5.89 % 5.46 % 3.88 % 5.20 % 5.56 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 6,805 $ 15,770 $ 22,575 $ 66 average pay rate 6.00 % 6.00 % 6.00 % (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements. (2) includes the company forward interest rate swap agreement.risk factors the company ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to pay common dividends to its shareholders depends on its ability to generate funds from operations in excess of capital expenditure requirements and preferred dividends, and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. funds from operations and the value of the company properties may be insufficient because of factors which are beyond the company control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartment units or oversupply of available apartment units in the company markets, which might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartment units; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rents; the company inability to rent apartments on favorable economic terms; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; changes in tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase the company acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, the company relies on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and its capital investment program (including its existing property expansion developments). while the company has sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in the company financial resources being insufficient to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event the company would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in the company 7 funds from operations could adversely affect the company ability to make distributions to its shareholders or to meet its loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on the company stock price. debt level, refinancing and loan covenant risk may adversely affect financial condition and operating results at december 31, 2005, the company had total debt outstanding of $1.14 billion. payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave the company with insufficient cash resources to operate the communities or pay distributions that are required to be paid in order for the company to maintain its qualification as a reit. the company currently intends to limit its total debt to approximately 60% of the undepreciated book value of its assets, although the company charter and bylaws do not limit its debt levels. circumstances may cause the company to exceed that target from time to time. as of december 31, 2005, the company ratio of debt to undepreciated book value was approximately 56%. the company board of directors can modify this policy at any time which could allow the company to become more highly leveraged and decrease its ability to make distributions to its shareholders. in addition, the company must repay its debt upon maturity, and the inability to access debt or equity capital at attractive rates could adversely affect the company financial condition and/or its funds from operations. the company relies on fannie mae and freddie mac (the agencies ) for the majority of its debt financing and has agreements with the agencies and with other lenders that require it to comply with certain covenants. the breach of any one of these covenants would place the company in default with its lenders and may have serious consequences on the operations of the company. variable interest rates may adversely affect funds from operations at december 31, 2005, effectively $173 million of the company debt bore interest at a variable rate and was not hedged by interest rate swaps or caps. an additional $25 million also bore interest at a variable rate at december 31, 2005, but was hedged by an interest rate swap that became operative in february 2006. the company may incur additional debt in the future that also bears interest at variable rates. variable rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase, which would adversely affect the company funds from operations and the amounts available to pay distributions to shareholders. the company $950 million secured credit facilities with prudential mortgage capital, credit enhanced by fannie mae, are predominately floating rate facilities. the company also has a $100 million credit facility with freddie mac which is a variable rate facility. at december 31, 2005, a total of $907.8 million was outstanding under these facilities. these facilities represent the majority of the variable interest rates the company was exposed to at december 31, 2005. large portions of the interest rates on these facilities have been hedged by means of a number of interest rate swaps and caps. upon the termination of these swaps and caps, the company will be exposed to the risks of varying interest rates. issuances of additional debt or equity may adversely impact our financial condition our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy rates of our apartment properties, dividend payment rates to our shareholders, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. the company cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, the company may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. accordingly, the company could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. increasing real estate taxes and insurance costs may negatively impact financial condition because the company has substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes and insuring its communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations which can be widely outside of the control of the company. if the costs associated with real estate taxes and insurance should rise, the company financial condition could be negatively impacted and the company ability to pay its dividend could be affected. 8 losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage the company carries comprehensive liability and property insurance on our properties, which the company believes is of the type and amount customarily obtained on real property assets. the company intends to obtain similar coverage for properties the company acquires in the future. however, some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, may be subject to limitations. the company exercises its discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if the company suffers a substantial loss, its insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. new acquisitions may fail to perform as expected and failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel could create inefficiencies the company intends to actively acquire and improve multifamily properties for rental operations. the company may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired property up to standards established for its intended market position. additionally, to grow successfully, the company must be able to apply our experience in managing our existing portfolio of apartment communities to a larger number of properties. the company must also be able to integrate new management and operations personnel as our organization grows in size and complexity. failures in either area will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our overall profitability. the company may not be able to sell properties when appropriate real estate investments are relatively illiquid and generally cannot be sold quickly. the company may not be able to change our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. this inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make distributions to our security holders. failure to qualify as a reit would cause the company to be taxed as a corporation if the company fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, the company will be taxed as a corporation. the internal revenue service may challenge our qualification as a reit for prior years, and new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit or the federal tax consequences of such qualification. for any taxable year that the company fails to qualify as a reit, the company would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates, plus any applicable alternative minimum tax. in addition, unless entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, the company would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. this treatment would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability for the year or years involved. in addition, distributions would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction nor be required to be made in order to preserve reit status. the company might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate some of our investments to pay any applicable tax resulting from our failure to qualify as a reit. environmental problems are possible and can be costly federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such property. the owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the 9 owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. all of our properties have been the subject of environmental assessments completed by qualified independent environmental consultant companies. these environmental assessments have not revealed, nor is the company aware of, any environmental liability that our management believes would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. over the past four years, there have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. the company cannot be assured that existing environmental assessments of our properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of any of our properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to the company, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist. compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost the americans with disabilities act, the fair housing act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require the company to modify our existing properties. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require the company to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on the company with respect to improved access by disabled persons. the company cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. our investments in joint ventures may involve risks investments in joint ventures may involve risks which may not otherwise be present in our direct investments such as: the potential inability of our joint venture partner to perform; the joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with or adverse to ours; the joint venture partner may take actions contrary to our requests or instructions or contrary to our objectives or policies; and the joint venturers may not be able to agree on matters relating to the property they jointly own. although each joint owner will have a right of first refusal to purchase the other owner interest, in the event a sale is desired, the joint owner may not have sufficient resources to exercise such right of first refusal. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates obtainable on its secured and unsecured borrowings. at december 31, 2005, 45.6% of the company total capitalization consisted of borrowings. the company interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower its overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, the company manages its exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for its borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments to the extent that reasonably favorable rates are obtainable with such arrangements, and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and caps to mitigate its interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or to effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of its variable debt or on future refinancings. the company does not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. approximately 85% of the company outstanding debt was subject to fixed rates after considering related derivative instruments with a weighted average of 5.6% at december 31, 2005. after considering the $25 million forward interest rate swap which becomes operative in february 2006, approximately 87% of the company debt was fixed or hedged by interest rate swaps or caps at december 31, 2005. the company regularly reviews interest rate exposure on its outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. 31 the table below provides information about the company financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for the company interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in 000 s). 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 total thereafter total fair value long-term debt fixed rate (1) $ 34,518 $ 114,451 $ 65,000 $ 71,071 $ 285,040 $ 258,662 average interest rate 6.99 % 4.86 % 7.71 % 5.86 % 6.02 % variable rate (1) $ 12,460 $ 40,000 $ 120,000 $ 682,546 $ 855,006 $ 855,006 average interest rate 6.00 % 5.40 % 4.93 % 4.79 % 4.86 % interest rate swaps (2) variable to fixed $ 25,000 $ 92,800 $ 74,935 $ 35,230 $ 98,365 $ 358,000 $ 684,330 $ 7,303 average pay rate 7.50 % 5.89 % 5.42 % 4.59 % 5.44 % 5.25 % 5.43 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 6,805 $ 15,770 $ 22,575 $ 30 average pay rate 6.00 % 6.00 % 6.00 % (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements. (2) includes the company forward interest rate swap agreement.risk factors in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to pay distributions to shareholders mid-america ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to pay common dividends to our shareholders depends on our ability to generate funds from operations in excess of capital expenditure requirements and preferred dividends, and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. funds from operations and the value of mid-america apartment communities may be insufficient because of factors which are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartment units or oversupply of available apartment units in mid-america markets, which might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartment units; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rents; mid-america inability to rent apartments on favorable economic terms; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; 8 changes in tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; an uninsured loss, resulting from a catastrophic storm or act of terrorism; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase mid-america acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, mid-america relies on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program (including our existing property expansion developments). while mid-america has sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event mid-america would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in mid-america funds from operations could adversely affect mid-america ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on mid-america stock price. debt level, refinancing and loan covenant risk may adversely affect financial condition and operating results and our ability to maintain our status as a reit at december 31, 2006, mid-america had total debt outstanding of $1.2 billion. payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave mid-america with insufficient cash resources to operate the apartment communities or pay distributions that are required to be paid in order for mid-america to maintain our qualification as a reit. mid-america currently intends to limit our total debt to approximately 60% of the undepreciated book value of our assets, although our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels. circumstances may cause mid-america to exceed that target from time-to-time. as of december 31, 2006, mid-america ratio of debt to undepreciated book value was approximately 52%. mid-america board of directors can modify this policy at any time which could allow mid-america to become more highly leveraged and decrease our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. in addition, mid-america must repay its debt upon maturity, and the inability to access debt or equity capital at attractive rates could adversely affect mid-america financial condition and/or our funds from operations. mid-america relies on fannie mae and freddie mac, which we refer to as the agencies, for the majority of our debt financing and has agreements with the agencies and with other lenders that require us to comply with certain covenants. the breach of any one of these covenants would place mid-america in default with our lenders and may have serious consequences on the operations of mid-america. variable interest rates may adversely affect funds from operations at december 31, 2006, effectively $226 million of mid-america debt bore interest at a variable rate and was not hedged by interest rate swaps or caps. mid-america may incur additional debt in the future that also bears interest at variable rates. variable rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase, which would adversely affect mid-america funds from operations and the amounts available to pay distributions to shareholders. mid-america $1.0 billion secured credit facilities with prudential mortgage capital, credit enhanced by fannie mae, are predominately floating rate facilities. mid-america also has credit facilities with freddie mac totaling $300 million which are variable rate facilities. at december 31, 2006, a total of $988 million was outstanding under these facilities. these facilities represent the majority of the variable interest rates mid-america was exposed to at december 31, 2006. large portions of the interest rates on these facilities have been hedged by means of a number of interest rate swaps and caps. upon the termination of these swaps and caps, mid-america will be exposed to the risks of varying interest rates. 9 issuances of additional debt or equity may adversely impact our financial condition our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy rates of our apartment communities, dividend payment rates to our shareholders, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. mid-america cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, mid-america may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. accordingly, mid-america could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. increasing real estate taxes and insurance costs may negatively impact financial condition because mid-america has substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes and insuring its apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations which can be widely outside of the control of mid-america. if the costs associated with real estate taxes and insurance should rise, mid-america financial condition could be negatively impacted and mid-america ability to pay our dividend could be affected. losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage mid-america carries comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities, and intends to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. mid-america exercises our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if mid-america suffers a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. property insurance limits may be inadequate and deductibles may be excessive in the event of a catastrophic loss or a series of major losses, and may cause a breach of a loan covenant mid-america has a significant proportion of our assets in areas exposed to windstorms and to the new madrid earthquake zone. a major wind or earthquake loss, or series of losses, could require that mid-america pay significant deductibles as well as additional amounts above the $40 million per occurrence limit of mid-america insurance for these risks. mid-america may then be judged to have breached one or more of our loan covenants, and any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on mid-america assets, financial condition, and results of operation. new acquisitions may fail to perform as expected and failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel could create inefficiencies mid-america intends to actively acquire and improve multifamily communities for rental operations. mid-america may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired community up to standards established for our intended market position. additionally, to grow successfully, mid-america must be able to apply our experience in managing our existing portfolio of apartment communities to a larger number of properties. mid-america must also be able to integrate new management and operations personnel as our organization grows in size and complexity. failures in either area will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our overall profitability. mid-america may not be able to sell communities when appropriate real estate investments are relatively illiquid and generally cannot be sold quickly. mid-america may not be able to change our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. this inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make distributions to our security holders. 10 environmental problems are possible and can be costly federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such community. the owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. all of our communities have been the subject of environmental assessments completed by qualified independent environmental consultant companies. these environmental assessments have not revealed, nor is mid-america aware of, any environmental liability that our management believes would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. over the past four years, there have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. mid-america cannot be assured that existing environmental assessments of our communities reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of any of our properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to mid-america, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist. compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost the americans with disabilities act, the fair housing act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require mid-america to modify our existing communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require mid-america to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on mid-america with respect to improved access by disabled persons. mid-america cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. our ownership limit restricts the transferability of our capital stock our charter limits ownership of our capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of our capital stock, both common and preferred. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in our losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of our shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code, owning 50% or more of our shares. if you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, we: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on our books; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; will consider the shares held in trust for our benefit; and will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any profit to us, or we will redeem the shares. if we redeem the shares, you will be paid a price equal to the lesser of: (a) the price you paid for the shares; or 11 (b) the average of the last reported sales prices on the new york stock exchange on the ten trading days immediately preceding the date fixed for redemption by our board of directors. if you acquire shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: you may lose your power to dispose of the shares; you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. provisions of our charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us ownership limit the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. preferred stock our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. the board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our shareholders best interests. currently, we have the following amounts of preferred stock issued and outstanding: 474,500 shares of 9 1/4% series f cumulative redeemable preferred stock; 6,200,000 shares of 8.30% series h cumulative redeemable preferred stock. tennessee anti-takeover statutes as a tennessee corporation, we are subject to various legislative acts which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders best interests. our investments in joint ventures may involve risks investments in joint ventures may involve risks which may not otherwise be present in our direct investments such as: the potential inability of our joint venture partner to perform; the joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with or adverse to ours; the joint venture partner may take actions contrary to our requests or instructions or contrary to our objectives or policies; and the joint venturers may not be able to agree on matters relating to the property they jointly own. although each joint owner will have a right of first refusal to purchase the other owner interest, in the event a sale is desired, the joint owner may not have sufficient resources to exercise such right of first refusal. failure to qualify as a reit would cause mid-america to be taxed as a corporation if mid-america fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, mid-america will be taxed as a corporation. the internal revenue service may challenge our qualification as a reit for prior years, and new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit or the federal tax consequences of such qualification. for any taxable year that mid-america fails to qualify as a reit, mid-america would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate 12 rates, plus any applicable alternative minimum tax. in addition, unless entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, mid-america would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. this treatment would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability for the year or years involved. in addition, distributions would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction nor be required to be made in order to preserve reit status. mid-america might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate some of our investments to pay any applicable tax resulting from our failure to qualify as a reit. failure to make required distributions would subject mid-america to income taxation in order to qualify as a reit, each year mid-america must distribute to stockholders at least 90% of its reit taxable income (determined without regard to the dividend paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains). to the extent that mid-america satisfies the distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of taxable income, it will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. in addition, mid-america will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which the distributions in any year are less than the sum of: 85% of ordinary income for that year; 95% of capital gain net income for that year; and 100% of undistributed taxable income from prior years. differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require mid-america to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of the taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. complying with reit requirements may cause mid-america to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, mid-america must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of income, the nature and diversification of assets, the amounts distributed to shareholders and the ownership of mid-america stock. in order to meet these tests, mid-america may be required to forgo attractive business or investment opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities. thus, compliance with the reit requirements may hinder mid-america ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk mid-america primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates obtainable on our secured and unsecured borrowings. at december 31, 2006, 41% of mid-america total capitalization consisted of borrowings. mid-america interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, mid-america manages its exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps and caps which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. mid-america uses our best efforts to ladder fixed rate maturities thereby limiting our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. mid-america does not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. approximately 81% of mid-america outstanding debt was subject to fixed rates after considering related derivative instruments with a weighted average of 5.5% at december 31, 2006. mid-america regularly reviews interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. 33 the table below provides information about mid-america financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for mid-america interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in 000 s). total fair 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereaft er total value long-term debt fixed rate (1) $ 111,637 $ 65,000 $ 72,785 $ 249,422 $ 227,905 average interest rate 4.92 % 7.71 % 5.89 % 5.93 % variable rate (1) $ 4,605 $ 40,000 $ 120,000 $ 215,033 $ 567,289 $ 946,927 $ 946,927 average interest rate 7.25 % 6.37 % 5.87 % 5.88 % 5.66 % 5.77 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ 92,800 $ 74,935 $ 35,230 $ 98,365 $ 133,000 $ 245,000 $ 679,330 $ 11,328 average pay rate 5.15 % 4.70 % 3.60 % 4.64 % 4.57 % 4.45 % 4.58 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 6,805 $ 15,770 $ 19,451 $ 42,026 $ 30 average pay rate 6.00 % 6.00 % 6.16 % 6.07 % ____________________ (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements.risk factors. in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. 9 failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to pay distributions to shareholders mid-america ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to pay common dividends to our shareholders depends on our ability to generate funds from operations in excess of capital expenditure requirements and preferred dividends, and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. funds from operations and the value of mid-america apartment communities may be insufficient because of factors which are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartment units or oversupply of available apartment units in mid-america markets, which might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartment units; conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rents; inability to rent apartments on favorable economic terms; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; changes in tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; an uninsured loss, resulting from a catastrophic storm or act of terrorism; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase mid-america acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, mid-america relies on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program (including our existing property expansion developments). while mid-america has sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event mid-america would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in mid-america funds from operations could adversely affect mid-america ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on mid-america stock price. 10 mid-america financing could be impacted by negative capital market conditions. recently, domestic financial markets have experienced unusual volatility and uncertainty. while this condition has occurred most visibly within the subprime mortgage lending sector of the credit market, liquidity has tightened in overall domestic financial markets, including the investment grade debt and equity capital markets. consequently, there is greater risk that the financial institutions mid-america does business with could experience disruptions that would negatively affect our current financing program. debt level, refinancing and loan covenant risk may adversely affect financial condition and operating results and our ability to maintain our status as a reit at december 31, 2007, mid-america had total debt outstanding of $1.3 billion. payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave mid-america with insufficient cash resources to operate the apartment communities or pay distributions that are required to be paid in order for mid-america to maintain our qualification as a reit. mid-america currently intends to limit our total debt to approximately 60% of the undepreciated book value of our assets, although our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels. circumstances may cause mid-america to exceed that target from time-to-time. as of december 31, 2007, mid-america ratio of debt to undepreciated book value was approximately 54%. mid-america board of directors can modify this policy at any time which could allow mid-america to become more highly leveraged and decrease our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. in addition, mid-america must repay its debt upon maturity, and the inability to access debt or equity capital at attractive rates could adversely affect mid-america financial condition and/or our funds from operations. mid-america relies on federal national mortgage association, or fnma, and federal home loan mortgage corporation, or freddie mac, which we refer to as the agencies, for the majority of our debt financing and has agreements with the agencies and with other lenders that require us to comply with certain covenants. the breach of any one of these covenants would place mid-america in default with our lenders and may have serious consequences on the operations of mid-america. variable interest rates may adversely affect funds from operations at december 31, 2007, effectively $226 million of mid-america debt bore interest at a variable rate and was not hedged by interest rate swaps or caps. mid-america may incur additional debt in the future that also bears interest at variable rates. variable rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase, which would adversely affect mid-america funds from operations and the amounts available to pay distributions to shareholders. mid-america $1.0 billion secured credit facilities with prudential mortgage capital, credit enhanced by fnma, are predominately floating rate facilities. mid-america also has credit facilities with freddie mac totaling $300 million which are variable rate facilities. at december 31, 2007, a total of $1.1 billion was outstanding under these facilities. these facilities represent the majority of the variable interest rates mid-america was exposed to at december 31, 2007. large portions of the interest rates on these facilities have been hedged by means of a number of interest rate swaps and caps. upon the termination of these swaps and caps, mid-america will be exposed to the risks of varying interest rates. interest rate hedging may be ineffective mid-america relies on the financial markets to refinance debt maturities, and also is heavily reliant on the creditworthiness of fnma, which provides credit enhancement for approximately $906 million of mid-america debt. the interest rate market for fnma discount mortgage backed securities, or dmbs, which in mid-america experience is highly correlated with three-month libor interest rates, is also an important component of mid-america liquidity and interest rate swap effectiveness. 11 typically, for the credit facility we have with fnma, the dmbs rate has approximated three-month libor less an average spread of 0.05% - 0.09% over the life of the facility. we also pay a credit enhancement fee, which in the case of fnma facility, is 0.62%. in september 2007, however, the spread between three-month libor and dmbs increased significantly, and peaked at 0.57% in december before dropping back to 0.27% in february 2008. while we believe that the current market illiquidity is an anomaly and that this spread will return to more historic levels, mid-america cannot forecast when or if the uncertainty and volatility in the market may change. continued unusual volatility could cause us to lose hedge accounting treatment for our interest rate swaps, resulting in material changes to our consolidated statements of operations and balance sheets, and potentially cause a breach with one of our debt covenants. issuances of additional debt or equity may adversely impact our financial condition our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy rates of our apartment communities, dividend payment rates to our shareholders, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. mid-america cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, mid-america may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. accordingly, mid-america could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. increasing real estate taxes and insurance costs may negatively impact financial condition as a result of mid-america substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes and insuring its apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations which can be widely outside of the control of mid-america. if the costs associated with real estate taxes and insurance should rise, mid-america financial condition could be negatively impacted and mid-america ability to pay our dividend could be affected. losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage mid-america carries comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities, and intends to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. mid-america exercises our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if mid-america suffers a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. 12 property insurance limits may be inadequate and deductibles may be excessive in the event of a catastrophic loss or a series of major losses, and may cause a breach of a loan covenant mid-america has a significant proportion of our assets in areas exposed to windstorms and to the new madrid earthquake zone. a major wind or earthquake loss, or series of losses, could require that mid-america pay significant deductibles as well as additional amounts above the per occurrence limit of mid-america insurance for these risks. mid-america may then be judged to have breached one or more of our loan covenants, and any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on mid-america assets, financial condition, and results of operation. mid-america is dependent on key personnel our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain the services of executive officers and other personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry and the loss of several of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on us. new acquisitions may fail to perform as expected and failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel could create inefficiencies mid-america intends to actively acquire and improve multifamily communities for rental operations. mid-america may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired community up to standards established for our intended market position. additionally, to grow successfully, mid-america must be able to apply our experience in managing our existing portfolio of apartment communities to a larger number of properties. mid-america must also be able to integrate new management and operations personnel as our organization grows in size and complexity. failures in either area will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our overall profitability. mid-america may not be able to sell communities when appropriate real estate investments are relatively illiquid and generally cannot be sold quickly. mid-america may not be able to change our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. this inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make distributions to our security holders. environmental problems are possible and can be costly federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such community. the owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. all of our communities have been the subject of environmental assessments completed by qualified independent environmental consultant companies. these environmental assessments have not revealed, nor is mid-america aware of, any environmental liability that our management believes would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. over the past several years, there have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. 13 some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. mid-america cannot be assured that existing environmental assessments of our communities reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of any of our properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to mid-america, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist. compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost the americans with disabilities act, the fair housing act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require mid-america to modify our existing communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require mid-america to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on mid-america with respect to improved access by disabled persons. mid-america cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. our ownership limit restricts the transferability of our capital stock our charter limits ownership of our capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of our capital stock, both common and preferred. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in our losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of our shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code, owning 50% or more of our shares. if you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, we: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on our books; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; will consider the shares held in trust for our benefit; and will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any profit to us, or we will redeem the shares. if we redeem the shares, you will be paid a price equal to the lesser of: (a) the price you paid for the shares; or (b) the average of the last reported sales prices on the new york stock exchange on the ten trading days immediately preceding the date fixed for redemption by our board of directors. 14 if you acquire shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: you may lose your power to dispose of the shares; you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. provisions of our charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us ownership limit the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. preferred stock our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. the board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our shareholders best interests. currently, we have 6,200,000 shares of 8.30% series h cumulative redeemable preferred stock issued and outstanding. tennessee anti-takeover statutes as a tennessee corporation, we are subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders best interests. our investments in joint ventures may involve risks investments in joint ventures may involve risks which may not otherwise be present in our direct investments such as: the potential inability of our joint venture partner to perform; the joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with or adverse to ours; the joint venture partner may take actions contrary to our requests or instructions or contrary to our objectives or policies; and the joint venturers may not be able to agree on matters relating to the property they jointly own. 15 although each joint owner will have a right of first refusal to purchase the other owner interest, in the event a sale is desired, the joint owner may not have sufficient resources to exercise such right of first refusal. failure to qualify as a reit would cause mid-america to be taxed as a corporation if mid-america fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, mid-america will be taxed as a corporation. the internal revenue service may challenge our qualification as a reit for prior years, and new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit or the federal tax consequences of such qualification. for any taxable year that mid-america fails to qualify as a reit, mid-america would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates, plus any applicable alternative minimum tax. in addition, unless entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, mid-america would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. this treatment would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability for the year or years involved. in addition, distributions would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction nor be required to be made in order to preserve reit status. mid-america might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate some of our investments to pay any applicable tax resulting from our failure to qualify as a reit. failure to make required distributions would subject mid-america to income taxation in order to qualify as a reit, each year mid-america must distribute to stockholders at least 90% of its reit taxable income (determined without regard to the dividend paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains). to the extent that mid-america satisfies the distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100% of taxable income, it will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. in addition, mid-america will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which the distributions in any year are less than the sum of: 85% of ordinary income for that year; 95% of capital gain net income for that year; and 100% of undistributed taxable income from prior years. differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require mid-america to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of the taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. complying with reit requirements may cause mid-america to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, mid-america must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of income, the nature and diversification of assets, the amounts distributed to shareholders and the ownership of mid-america stock. in order to meet these tests, mid-america may be required to forgo attractive business or investment opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities. thus, compliance with the reit requirements may hinder mid-america ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. mid-america's primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates obtainable on our secured and unsecured borrowings. at december 31, 2007, 48% of mid-america's total capitalization consisted of borrowings. mid-america's interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, mid-america manages its exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps and caps which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. mid-america uses our best efforts to ladder fixed rate maturities thereby limiting our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. mid-america does not enter into derivative instruments for trading purposes. approximately 82% of mid-america's outstanding debt was subject to fixed or capped rates after considering related derivative instruments with a weighted average of 5.5% at december 31, 2007. mid-america regularly reviews interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. 38 the table below provides information about mid-america's financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for mid-america interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in 000's). total fair 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total value long-term debt fixed rate (1) $ 108,739 $ 65,000 $ $ $ $ 61,195 $ 234,934 $ 221,378 average interest rate 4.93 % 7.71 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 5.60 % 5.87 % variable rate (1) $ 2,404 $ 39,560 $ 120,000 $ 215,033 $ 40,000 $ 612,689 $ 1,029,686 $ 1,029,686 average interest rate 6.57 % 6.08 % 5.06 % 5.07 % 5.06 % 4.91 % 5.02 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ 74,935 $ 35,230 $ 148,365 $ 133,000 $ 167,800 $ 247,000 $ 806,330 $ (15,987 ) average pay rate 4.70 % 3.60 % 4.92 % 4.57 % 4.23 % 4.81 % 4.61 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ $ 15,770 $ 5,095 $ 19,451 $ 6,805 $ $ 47,121 $ 11 average pay rate 0.00 % 6.00 % 6.00 % 6.16 % 6.00 % 0.00 % 6.07 % (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements.risk factors. in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. please note that additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. failure to generate sufficient cash flows could limit our ability to pay distributions to shareholders. our ability to generate sufficient cash flow in order to pay common dividends to our shareholders depends on our ability to generate funds from operations in excess of capital expenditure requirements and preferred dividends, and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. funds from operations and the value of our apartment communities may be insufficient because of factors which are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities; overbuilding of new apartment units or oversupply of available apartment units in our markets, which might adversely affect apartment occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartment units; conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use; job losses resulting from further declines in economic activity; increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rents; inability to rent apartments on favorable economic terms; changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance; changes in tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing; withdrawal of government support of apartment financing through its financial backing of federal national mortgage association, or fnma, and federal home loan mortgage corporation, or freddie mac; an uninsured loss, resulting from a catastrophic storm or act of terrorism; changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily available) or increase our acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available); weakness in the overall economy which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing; and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, we rely on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program (including our existing property expansion developments). while we have sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to pay distributions to shareholders at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. 11 our financing could be impacted by negative capital market conditions. recently, domestic financial markets have experienced unusual volatility and uncertainty. liquidity has tightened in financial markets, including the investment grade debt, the cmbs, commercial paper, and equity capital markets. a large majority of apartment financing, and as of december 31, 2008, 89% of our outstanding debt, is provided by or credit-enhanced by fnma and freddie mac, which are now under the conservatorship of the u.s. government. we have seen an increase in the volatility of short term interest rates and changes in historic relationships between libor (which is the basis for the payments to us by our swap counterparties) and the actual interest rate we pay through the fannie mae discount mortgage backed security, or dmbs, and the freddie mac reference bill programs, which we believe to be temporary. this creates a risk that our interest expense will fluctuate to a greater extent than it has in the past, and it makes forecasting more difficult. were our credit arrangements with prudential mortgage capital, credit-enhanced by fnma, or with financial federal, credit-enhanced by freddie mac, to fail, or their ability to lend money to finance apartment communities to become impaired, we would have to seek alternative sources of capital, which might not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. in addition, any such event would most likely cause our interest costs to rise. this could also cause our swaps to become ineffective, triggering a default in one or more of our credit agreements. if any of the foregoing events were to occur it could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and prospects. our credit facilities with fnma and freddie mac expire 2011 2018, and we anticipate that replacement facilities will be at a higher cost and have less attractive terms. a change in u.s. government policy with regard to fnma and freddie mac could seriously impact our financial condition. the u. s. government has committed $200 billion of preferred equity each to fnma and freddie mac, and placed them in conservatorship through the end of 2009. the treasury department has recently increased fnma and freddie mac portfolio limitation to $900 billion, which at present is required to be reduced on a phased basis beginning in 2010. through expansion of their off-balance sheet lending products (which form the large majority of our borrowing), we believe that fnma and freddie mac balance sheet limitations will not restrict their support of lending to the multifamily industry and to us in particular. statements supporting their involvement in apartment lending by the heads of multifamily lending of fnma, freddie mac, and their regulator have recently been reiterated. should this support change, it would have a material adverse affect on both us and the multifamily industry, and we would seek alternative sources of funding. this could jeopardize the effectiveness of our interest rate swaps, potentially causing a breach in one or more of our loan covenants, and through reduced loan availability, impact the value of multifamily assets, which could impair the value of our properties. a change in the value of our assets could cause us to experience a cash shortfall and be in default of our loan covenants. mid-america borrows on a secured basis from fnma, freddie mac, and regions bank. a significant reduction in value could require us to post additional collateral. while we believe that we have significant excess collateral and capacity, future asset values are uncertain. if we were unable to meet a request to add collateral to a credit facility, this would have a material adverse affect on our liquidity and our ability to meet our loan covenants. 12 debt level, refinancing and loan covenant risk may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results and our ability to maintain our status as a reit. at december 31, 2008, we had total debt outstanding of $1.3 billion. payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash resources to operate the apartment communities or pay distributions that are required to be paid in order for us to maintain our qualification as a reit. we currently intend to limit our total debt to approximately 60% of the undepreciated book value of our assets, although our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels. circumstances may cause us to exceed that target from time-to-time. as of december 31, 2008, our ratio of debt to undepreciated book value was approximately 50%. our board of directors can modify this policy at any time which could allow us to become more highly leveraged and decrease our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. in addition, we must repay our debt upon maturity, and the inability to access debt or equity capital at attractive rates could adversely affect our financial condition and/or our funds from operations. we rely on fnma and freddie mac, which we refer to as the agencies, for the majority of our debt financing and have agreements with the agencies and with other lenders that require us to comply with certain covenants, including maintaining adequate collateral that is subject to revaluation quarterly. the breach of any one of these covenants would place us in default with our lenders and may have serious consequences on our operations. interest rate hedging may be ineffective. we rely on the financial markets to refinance debt maturities, and also are heavily reliant on the agencies, which provide credit or credit enhancement for approximately $1.2 billion of our outstanding debt as of december 31, 2008. the debt is provided under the terms of credit facilities with prudential mortgage capital (credit-enhanced by fnma) and financial federal (credit-enhanced by freddie mac). we pay fees to the credit facility providers and the agencies plus interest which is tied to the fnma dmbs rate, and the freddie mac reference bill rate. the agencies have been placed into conservatorship by the u.s. government (under the supervision of the federal housing finance agency), which has committed $200 billion of capital to each, if needed. the interest rate market for the fnma dmbs rate and the freddie mac reference bill rate, both of which have been highly correlated with libor interest rates, are also an important component of our liquidity and interest rate swap effectiveness. in our experience, the fnma dmbs rate has averaged 5 basis points to 12 basis points below libor, and the freddie mac reference bill rate has averaged 15 basis points to 17 basis points below libor, but in the past year the spreads have increased significantly and have been more volatile than we have historically seen. we believe that the current market illiquidity is an anomaly and that the spreads and the volatility will return to more stable historic trends, but we cannot forecast when or if the uncertainty and volatility in the market may change. continued unusual volatility over a period of time could cause us to lose hedge accounting treatment for our interest rate swaps, resulting in material changes to our consolidated statements of operations and balance sheet, and potentially cause a breach with one of our debt covenants. the difference in interest rates between the dmbs and reference bill rates and three-month libor, which is a component of the ineffectiveness of the libor-based swaps, flows through interest expense in the current period, and together with the recognized ineffectiveness (which is also an adjustment to current period interest expense), reduces the effectiveness of the swaps. we also rely on the credit of the counterparties that provide swaps to hedge the interest rate risk on our credit facilities. we use three major banks to provide nearly 78% of our swaps, jp morgan chase, royal bank of canada, and deutsche bank, all of which have high investment grade ratings from moody and s&amp;p. in the event that one of our swap providers should suffer a significant downgrade of its credit rating or fail, our swaps may become ineffective, in which case the value of the swap would be adjusted to value in the current period, possibly causing a substantial loss sufficient to cause a breach with one of our debt covenants. 13 one or more interest rate swap or cap counterparties could default, causing us significant financial exposure. we enter into interest rate swap and interest rate cap agreements only with counterparties that are highly rated (generally, aa- or above by standard &amp; poors, or aa3 or above by moody s). we also try to diversify our risk amongst several counterparties. in the event one or more of these counterparties were to go into liquidation or to experience a significant rating downgrade, this could cause us to liquidate the interest rate swap, or lose the interest rate protection of an interest rate cap. liquidation of an interest rate swap could cause us to be required to pay the swap counter party the net present value of the swap, which may represent a significant current period cash charge, possibly sufficient to cause us to breach one or more loan covenants. variable interest rates may adversely affect funds from operations. at december 31, 2008, effectively $185 million of our debt bore interest at a variable rate and was not hedged by interest rate swaps or caps. we may incur additional debt in the future that also bears interest at variable rates. variable rate debt creates higher debt service requirements if market interest rates increase, which would adversely affect our funds from operations and the amount of cash available to pay distributions to shareholders. our $1.0 billion secured credit facilities with prudential mortgage capital, credit enhanced by fnma, are predominately floating rate facilities. we also have credit facilities with freddie mac totaling $300 million which are variable rate facilities. at december 31, 2008, a total of $1.2 billion was outstanding under these facilities. these facilities represent the majority of the variable interest rates we were exposed to at december 31, 2008. large portions of the interest rates on these facilities have been hedged by means of a number of interest rate swaps and caps. upon the termination of these swaps and caps, we will be exposed to the risks of varying interest rates. losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage. we carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our communities, and intend to obtain similar coverage for communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. we exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. increasing real estate taxes and insurance costs may negatively impact financial condition. as a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations which can be widely outside of our control. if the costs associated with real estate taxes and insurance should rise, our financial condition could be negatively impacted and our ability to pay our dividend could be affected. property insurance limits may be inadequate and deductibles may be excessive in the event of a catastrophic loss or a series of major losses, and may cause a breach of a loan covenants. we have a significant proportion of our assets in areas exposed to windstorms and to the new madrid earthquake zone. a major wind or earthquake loss, or series of losses, could require that we pay significant deductibles as well as additional amounts above the per occurrence limit of our insurance for these risks. we may then be judged to have breached one or more of our loan covenants, and any of the foregoing events could have a material adverse effect on our assets, financial condition, and results of operation. 14 issuances of additional debt or equity may adversely impact our financial condition. our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. accordingly, we could become more leveraged, resulting in increased risk of default on our obligations and in an increase in our debt service requirements, both of which could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future. we are dependent on key personnel. our success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain the services of executive officers and other personnel. there is substantial competition for qualified personnel in the real estate industry and the loss of several of our key personnel could have an adverse effect on us. new acquisitions may fail to perform as expected and failure to integrate acquired communities and new personnel could create inefficiencies. we intend to actively acquire and improve multifamily communities for rental operations. we may underestimate the costs necessary to bring an acquired community up to standards established for our intended market position. additionally, to grow successfully, we must be able to apply our experience in managing our existing portfolio of apartment communities to a larger number of properties. we must also be able to integrate new management and operations personnel as our organization grows in size and complexity. failures in either area will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our overall profitability. we may not be able to sell communities when appropriate. real estate investments are relatively illiquid and generally cannot be sold quickly. we may not be able to change our portfolio promptly in response to economic or other conditions. further, we own seven communities (of 145 total) which are subject to restrictions on sale, and are required to be exchanged through a 1031b tax-free exchange, unless we pay the tax liability of the contributing partners. this inability to respond promptly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and ability to make distributions to our security holders. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and clean up hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at such community. the owner or operator may have to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by such parties in connection with the contamination. these laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all of the clean-up costs incurred. in addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. all of our communities have been the subject of environmental assessments completed by qualified independent environmental consultant companies. these environmental assessments have not revealed, nor are we aware of, any environmental liability that we believe would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. over the past several years, there have been an increasing number of lawsuits against owners and managers of multifamily properties alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. 15 some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. we cannot be assured that existing environmental assessments of our communities reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner of any of our properties did not create a material environmental condition not known to us, or that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist. our ownership limit restricts the transferability of our capital stock. our charter limits ownership of our capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of our capital stock, both common and preferred. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in our losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of our shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code, owning 50% or more of our shares. if you acquire shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, we: will consider the transfer to be null and void; will not reflect the transaction on our books; may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction; will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares; will not recognize any voting rights for those shares; will consider the shares held in trust for our benefit; and will either direct you to sell the shares and turn over any profit to us, or we will redeem the shares. if we redeem the shares, you will be paid a price equal to the lesser of: 1. the price you paid for the shares; or 2. the average of the last reported sales prices on the new york stock exchange on the ten trading days immediately preceding the date fixed for redemption by our board of directors. if you acquire shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: you may lose your power to dispose of the shares; you may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases; and you may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. provisions of our charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of us. ownership limit. the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of us by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. preferred stock. our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. the board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of us, even if a change in control were in our shareholders best interests. currently, we have 6,200,000 shares of 8.30% series h cumulative redeemable preferred stock issued and outstanding. tennessee anti-takeover statutes. as a tennessee corporation, we are subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire us and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders best interests. 16 our investments in joint ventures may involve risks. investments in joint ventures may involve risks which may not otherwise be present in our direct investments such as: the potential inability of our joint venture partner to perform; the joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with or adverse to ours; the joint venture partner may take actions contrary to our requests or instructions or contrary to our objectives or policies; and the joint venturers may not be able to agree on matters relating to the property they jointly own. although each joint owner will have a right of first refusal to purchase the other owner interest, in the event a sale is desired, the joint owner may not have sufficient resources to exercise such right of first refusal. failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation. if we failed to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we would be taxed as a corporation. the internal revenue service may challenge our qualification as a reit for prior years, and new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit or the federal tax consequences of such qualification. for any taxable year that we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at corporate rates, plus any applicable alternative minimum tax. in addition, unless entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we would be disqualified from treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year during which qualification is lost. this treatment would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the additional tax liability for the year or years involved. in addition, distributions would no longer qualify for the dividends paid deduction nor be required to be made in order to preserve reit status. we might be required to borrow funds or to liquidate some of our investments to pay any applicable tax resulting from our failure to qualify as a reit. compliance or failure to comply with laws requiring access to our properties by disabled persons could result in substantial cost. the americans with disabilities act, the fair housing act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require us to modify our existing communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. legislation or regulations adopted in the future may impose further burdens or restrictions on us with respect to improved access by disabled persons. we cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. 17 failure to make required distributions would subject us to income taxation. in order to qualify as a reit, each year we must distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividend paid deduction and by excluding net capital gains). to the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on the undistributed income. in addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of: 85% of ordinary income for that year; 95% of capital gain net income for that year; and 100% of undistributed taxable income from prior years. differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of the taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. complying with reit requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities. to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of income, the nature and diversification of assets, the amounts distributed to shareholders and the ownership of our stock. in order to meet these tests, we may be required to forgo attractive business or investment opportunities or engage in marginal investment opportunities. thus, compliance with the reit requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. mid-america's primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates obtainable on our secured and unsecured borrowings. at december 31, 2008, 51% of mid-america's total capitalization consisted of borrowings. mid-america's interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, mid-america manages its exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps and caps which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. mid-america uses our best efforts to ladder fixed rate maturities thereby limiting our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. mid-america does not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. approximately 86% of mid-america's outstanding debt was subject to fixed or capped rates after considering related derivative instruments at december 31, 2008. mid-america regularly reviews interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. the table below provides information about mid-america's financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for mid-america interest rate swaps and caps, the table presents the notional amount of the swaps and caps and the years in which they expire. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (dollars in 000's). 41 total fair 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total value long-term debt fixed rate (1) $ 65,000 $ $ $ $ $ 83,049 $ 148,049 $ 141,817 average interest rate 7.71 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 0.00 % 5.77 % 6.62 % variable rate (1) $ 38,624 $ 661 $ 111,404 $ 80,000 $ 158,629 $ 785,689 $ 1,175,007 $ 1,078,166 average interest rate 3.20 % 1.96 % 1.79 % 3.60 % 3.03 % 2.30 % 2.47 % interest rate swaps variable to fixed $ 25,000 $ 148,365 $ 158,000 $ 167,800 $ 190,000 $ 219,000 $ 908,165 $ (76,961 ) average pay rate 3.98 % 5.07 % 4.61 % 4.41 % 4.58 % 4.77 % 4.66 % interest rate cap variable to fixed $ 11,720 $ 5,095 $ 33,731 $ 23,795 $ 7,945 $ $ 82,286 $ 51 average pay rate 6.00 % 6.00 % 6.09 % 6.00 % 6.00 % 0.00 % 6.04 % ____________________ (1) excluding the effect of interest rate swap and cap agreements.risk factors and, from time to time, in other reports we file with the securities and exchange commission, or the sec, or in other documents that we publicly disseminate. new factors may also emerge from time to time that could have a material adverse effect on our business. except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date on which this annual report on form 10-k is filed. item 1. business. overview maa, an p 500 company, is a multifamily-focused, self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust, or reit. we own, operate, acquire and selectively develop apartment communities primarily located in the southeast, southwest and mid-atlantic regions of the united states. as of december 31, 2019, we maintained full or partial ownership of apartment communities and commercial properties across 16 states and the district of columbia, summarized as follows: multifamily communities units consolidated 299 99,762 unconsolidated 1 269 total 300 100,031 commercial properties sq. ft. (1) consolidated 4 260,000 (1) excludes commercial space located at our multifamily apartment communities, which totals approximately 630,000 square feet of gross leasable space. our business is conducted principally through the operating partnership. maa is the sole general partner of the operating partnership, holding 114,246,393 op units, comprising a 96.6% partnership interest in the operating partnership as of december 31, 2019. maa and maalp were formed in tennessee in 1993. as of december 31, 2019, we had 2,476 full-time employees and 37 part-time employees. 3 business objectives our primary business objectives are to protect and grow existing property values, to maintain a stable and increasing cash flow that will fund our dividends and distributions through all parts of the real estate investment cycle, and to create shareholder value by growing in a disciplined manner. to achieve these objectives, we intend to continue to pursue the following goals and strategies: effectively and efficiently operate our existing properties with an intense property and asset management focus and a decentralized structure manage real estate investment cycles by taking an opportunistic approach to buying, selling, developing and renovating apartment communities diversify investment capital across markets in which we operate to achieve a balanced portfolio and minimize volatile operating performance and actively manage our capital structure to enhance predictability of earnings to fund our dividends and distributions. operations our goal is to generate return on investment collectively and in each apartment community by increasing revenues, controlling operating expenses, maintaining high occupancy levels and reinvesting in the income producing capacity of each apartment community as appropriate. the steps taken to meet these objectives include: providing management information and improved customer services through technology innovations implementing programs to control expenses through investment in cost-saving initiatives analyzing individual asset productivity performances to identify best practices and improvement areas maintaining the physical condition of each property through ongoing capital investments improving the curb appeal of the apartment communities through extensive landscaping and exterior improvements, and repositioning apartment communities from time to time to enhance or maintain market positions managing lease expirations to align with peak leasing traffic patterns and to maximize productivity of property staffing allocating additional capital, including capital for selective interior and exterior improvements and maintaining a hands-on management style and flat organizational structure that emphasizes property level decision making coupled with asset management and senior management's monitoring. we believe that our decentralized operating structure capitalizes on specific market knowledge, provides greater personal accountability than a centralized structure and is beneficial in the acquisition and redevelopment processes. to support this decentralized operational structure, senior management, along with various asset management functions, are proactively involved in supporting and reviewing property management through extensive reporting processes and frequent on-site visits. to maximize the amount of information shared between senior management and the properties on a real-time basis, we utilize a web-based property management system. the system contains property and accounting modules that allow for operating efficiencies and continued expense control, provide for various expanded revenue management practices, and improve the support provided to on-site property operations. we use a yield management pricing program that helps our property managers optimize rental revenues, and we also utilize purchase order and accounts payable software to provide improved controls and management information. investment in technology continues to drive operating efficiencies in our business and help us to better meet the changing needs of our residents. our residents have the ability to conduct business with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week and complete online leasing applications, contracts and renewals via the use of our web-based resident internet portal. interacting with our residents through such technology has allowed us to improve resident satisfaction ratings and increase the efficiency of our operating teams. acquisitions one of our growth strategies is to acquire apartment communities that are located in various markets throughout the southeast, southwest and mid-atlantic regions of the united states. acquisitions, along with dispositions, help us achieve and maintain our desired product mix, geographic diversification and asset allocation. portfolio growth allows for maximizing the efficiency of the existing management and overhead structure. we have extensive experience in the acquisition of apartment communities. we will continue to evaluate opportunities that arise, and we will utilize this strategy to increase our number of apartment communities in strong and growing markets. 4 we acquired the following properties during the year ended december 31, 2019 : multifamily acquisitions market units date acquired the greene greenville, sc 271 november 2019 jefferson sand lake (1) orlando, fl 264 october 2019 novel midtown (2) phoenix, az 345 february 2019 commercial acquisition market sq ft date acquired 220 riverside retail (3) jacksonville, fl 14,941 august 2019 land acquisitions market acres date acquired north orange avenue outparcel orlando, fl 2 april 2019 (1) this pre-purchase multifamily community development is being developed through a joint venture with a local developer. we own 95% of the joint venture that owns this property. (2) this pre-purchase multifamily community development is being developed through a joint venture with a local developer. we own 80% of the joint venture that owns this property. (3) we acquired the ground floor retail portion of one of our existing multifamily apartment communities. dispositions we sell apartment communities and other assets that no longer meet our long-term strategy or when market conditions are favorable, and we redeploy the proceeds from those sales to acquire, develop and redevelop additional apartment communities and rebalance our portfolio across or within geographic regions. dispositions also allow us to realize a portion of the value created through our investments and provide additional liquidity. we are then able to redeploy the net proceeds from our dispositions in lieu of raising additional capital. in deciding to sell an apartment community, we consider current market conditions and generally solicit competing bids from unrelated parties for these individual properties, considering the sales price and other key terms of each proposal. we also consider portfolio dispositions when such a structure is useful to maximize proceeds and efficiency of execution. during the year ended december 31, 2019, we disposed of five multifamily communities totaling 1,368 units, our former corporate office and four land parcels totaling approximately 83 acres. development as another part of our growth strategy, we invest in a limited number of development projects. development activities may be conducted through wholly-owned affiliated companies or through joint ventures with unaffiliated parties. typically, fixed price construction contracts are signed with unrelated parties to minimize construction risk. we typically manage the leasing portion of the project as units become available for lease. we may also engage in limited expansion development opportunities on existing communities in which we typically serve as the developer. while we seek opportunistic new development investments offering attractive long-term investment returns, we intend to maintain a total development commitment that we consider modest in relation to our total balance sheet and investment portfolio. during the year ended december 31, 2019, we incurred $112.9 million in development costs and completed 2 development projects. the following multifamily projects were under development as of december 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands): project market total units units completed cost to date budgeted cost estimated cost per unit expected completion copper ridge ii fort worth, tx 168 35 $ 18,533 $ 30,000 $ 179 2nd quarter 2020 maa frisco bridges ii dallas, tx 348 40,930 69,000 198 3rd quarter 2020 novel midtown (1) phoenix, az 345 30,116 82,000 238 2nd quarter 2021 westglenn denver, co 306 16,926 84,500 276 4th quarter 2021 336 n orange orlando, fl 369 11,574 99,000 268 4th quarter 2021 long point houston, tx 308 10,468 57,000 185 1st quarter 2022 jefferson sand lake (2) orlando, fl 264 15,400 68,000 258 4th quarter 2021 2,108 35 $ 143,947 $ 489,500 (1) this pre-purchase multifamily community development is being developed through a joint venture with a local developer. we own 80% of the joint venture that owns this property. (2) this pre-purchase multifamily community development is being developed through a joint venture with a local developer. we own 95% of the joint venture that owns this property. redevelopment we focus on both interior unit upgrades and exterior amenities above and beyond routine capital upkeep on existing apartment communities across our portfolio that we believe have the ability to support additional rent growth. during the year ended 5 december 31, 2019 , we renovated 8,329 units at an average cost of $5,876 per unit, achieving average rental rate increases of 9.8% above the normal market rate for similar but non-renovated units. capital structure we use a combination of debt and equity sources to fund our business objectives. we maintain a capital structure, focused on maintaining access, flexibility and low costs, that we believe allows us to proactively support normal business operations and source potential investment opportunities in the marketplace. we structure our debt maturities to avoid disproportionate exposure in any given year. our primary debt financing strategy is to access the unsecured debt markets to provide our debt capital needs, but we also maintain a limited amount of secured debt and maintain our access to both the secured and unsecured debt markets for maximum flexibility. we also believe that we have significant access to the equity capital markets. as of december 31, 2019, 22.2% of our total market capitalization consisted of debt borrowings, including 19.1% under unsecured borrowings and 3.1% under secured borrowings. we currently intend to target our total debt, net of cash held, to a range of approximately 30% to 36% of the undepreciated book value of our assets. our charter and bylaws do not limit our debt levels and our board of directors can modify this policy at any time. we may issue new equity to maintain our debt within the target range. covenants for our unsecured senior notes limit our total debt to 60% or less of our adjusted total assets (as defined in the covenants for the bonds issued by maalp). as of december 31, 2019, our total debt was approximately 31.4% of our adjusted total assets. we continuously review opportunities for lowering our cost of capital. we plan to continue using unsecured debt in order to take advantage of the lower cost of capital and flexibility provided by these markets. we will evaluate opportunities to repurchase shares when we believe that our share price is significantly below our net present value. we also look for opportunities where we can acquire or develop apartment communities, selectively funded or partially funded by sales of equity securities, when appropriate opportunities arise. we focus on improving the net present value of our investments by generating cash flow from our portfolio of assets above the estimated total cost of debt and equity capital. we routinely make new investments when we believe it will be accretive to shareholder value over the life of the investments. competition all of our apartment communities are located in areas that include other apartment communities. occupancy and rental rates are affected by the number of competitive apartment communities in a particular area. the owners of competing apartment communities may have greater resources than us, and the managers of these apartment communities may have more experience than our management. moreover, single-family rental housing, manufactured housing, condominiums and the new and existing home markets provide housing alternatives to potential residents of apartment communities. competition for new residents is generally intense across all of our markets. some competing apartment communities offer features that our apartment communities do not have. competing apartment communities can use concessions or lower rents to obtain temporary competitive advantages. also, some competing apartment communities are larger or newer than our apartment communities. the competitive position of each apartment community is different depending upon many factors including sub-market supply and demand. in addition, other real estate investors compete with us to acquire existing properties and to develop new properties. these competitors include insurance companies, pension and investment funds, public and private real estate companies, investment companies and other public and private apartment reits, some of which may have greater resources or lower capital costs than we do. we believe, however, that we are generally well-positioned to compete effectively for residents and investments. we believe our competitive advantages include: a fully integrated organization with property management, development, redevelopment, acquisition, marketing, sales and financing expertise scalable operating and support systems, which include automated systems to meet the changing technological needs of our residents access to a wide variety of debt and equity capital sources geographic diversification with a presence in 36 defined markets across the southeast, southwest and mid-atlantic regions of the united states and significant presence in many of our major markets that allows us to be a local operating expert. moving forward, we plan to continue to optimize lease expiration management, improve expense control, increase resident retention efforts and align employee incentive plans with our performance. we also plan to continue to make capital improvements to both our apartment communities and individual units on a regular basis in order to maintain a competitive position in each individual market. we believe this plan of operation, coupled with the portfolio's strengths in targeting residents across a geographically diverse platform, should position us for continued operational growth. environmental matters as a part of our standard apartment community acquisition and development processes, we generally obtain environmental studies of the sites from outside environmental engineering firms. the purpose of these studies is to identify potential sources of 6 contamination at the site and to assess the status of environmental regulatory compliance. these studies generally include historical reviews of the site, reviews of certain public records, preliminary investigations of the site and surrounding properties, inspection for the presence of asbestos, poly-chlorinated biphenyls and underground storage tanks and the preparation and issuance of written reports. depending on the results of these studies, more invasive procedures, such as soil sampling or ground water analysis, may be performed to investigate potential sources of contamination. these studies must be satisfactorily completed before we take ownership of an acquisition or development property however, no assurance can be given that the studies or additional documents reviewed identify all significant environmental risks. see risk factors - risks relating to our real estate investments and our operations - environmental problems are possible and can be costly. the environmental studies we received on properties that we have acquired have not revealed any material environmental liabilities. should any potential environmental risks or conditions be discovered during our due diligence process, the potential costs of remediation will be assessed carefully and factored into the cost of acquisition, assuming the identified risks and factors are deemed to be manageable and within reason. we are not aware of any existing conditions that we believe would be considered a material environmental liability. nevertheless, it is possible that the studies do not reveal all environmental risks or that there are material environmental liabilities of which we are not aware. moreover, no assurance can be given concerning future laws, ordinances or regulations, or the potential introduction of hazardous or toxic substances by neighboring properties or residents. qualification as a real estate investment trust maa has elected to be taxed as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code. to continue to qualify as a reit, maa must continue to meet certain tests which, among other things, generally require that our assets consist primarily of real estate assets, our income be derived primarily from real estate assets, and that we distribute at least 90% of our reit taxable income (other than our net capital gains) to our shareholders annually. if maa maintains its qualification as a reit, maa generally will not be subject to u.s. federal income taxes at the corporate level on its net income to the extent it distributes such net income to its shareholders annually. even if maa continues to qualify as a reit, it will continue to be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and its property. in 2019, maa paid total distributions of $3.84 per share of common stock to its shareholders, which was above the 90% reit distribution requirement and was in excess of reit taxable income. website access to our reports maa and the operating partnership file combined periodic reports with the sec. our annual reports on form 10-k, along with our quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports, are available on our website at https://www.maac.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the sec. reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the site and should not be considered part of this annual report on form 10-k. all of the aforementioned materials may also be obtained free of charge by contacting our investor relations department, 6815 poplar avenue, suite 500, germantown, tennessee 38138. 7 item 1a. risk factors. in addition to the other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k, we have identified the following additional risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. our business faces significant risks and the risks described below may not be the only risks we face. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also significantly impact our business operations. if any of these risks occur, our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, the market price of our capital stock and the trading price of our debt securities could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in our capital stock or debt securities. risks related to our real estate investments and our operations unfavorable market and economic conditions could adversely affect occupancy levels, rental revenues and the value of our properties. unfavorable market conditions in the areas in which we operate and unfavorable economic conditions may significantly affect our occupancy levels, our rental rates and collections, the value of the properties and our ability to acquire or dispose of apartment communities on economically favorable terms. our ability to lease our apartment communities at favorable rates is adversely affected by the increase in supply in the multifamily and other rental markets and is dependent upon the overall level in the economy, which is adversely affected by, among other things, job losses and unemployment levels, personal debt levels, a downturn in the housing market, stock market volatility and uncertainty about the future. some of our major expenses generally do not decline when related rents decline. we would expect that declines in our occupancy levels, rental revenues and/or the values of our apartment communities would cause us to have less cash available to make payments on our debt and to make distributions, which could adversely affect our financial condition or the market value of our securities. factors that may affect our occupancy levels, our rental revenues, and/or the value of our apartment communities include the following, among others: downturns in global, national, regional and local economic conditions, particularly increases in unemployment declines in mortgage interest rates and home pricing, making alternative housing more affordable government or builder incentives with respect to home ownership, making alternative housing options more attractive local real estate market conditions, including oversupply of apartments or other housing available for rent, or a reduction in demand for apartments in the area declines in the financial condition of our residents, which may make it more difficult for us to collect rents from some residents declines in market rental rates declines in household formation and increases in operating costs, if these costs cannot be passed through to our residents. failure to generate sufficient cash flow could limit our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions depends on our ability to generate cash flow in excess of operating costs and capital expenditure requirements and/or to have access to the markets for debt and equity financing. our funds from operations may be insufficient because of factors that are beyond our control. such events or conditions could include: competition from other apartment communities overbuilding of new apartments or oversupply of available apartments in our markets, which might adversely affect occupancy or rental rates and/or require rent concessions in order to lease apartments conversion of condominiums and single family houses to rental use or the increase in the number of condominiums and single family homes available for sale weakness in the overall economy, which lowers job growth and the associated demand for apartment housing increases in operating costs (including real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums) due to inflation and other factors, which may not be offset by increased rental rates inability to initially, or subsequently after lease terminations, rent apartments on favorable economic terms failure of development communities to be completed within budget and on a timely basis, if at all, or to lease-up as anticipated changes in governmental regulations and the related costs of compliance changes in laws including, but not limited to, tax laws and housing laws including the enactment of rent control laws or other laws regulating multifamily housing an uninsured loss, including those resulting from a catastrophic storm, earthquake, or act of terrorism changes in interest rate levels and the availability of financing, borrower credit standards, and down-payment requirements which could lead renters to purchase homes (if interest rates decrease and home loans are more readily 8 available) or increase our acquisition and operating costs (if interest rates increase and financing is less readily available) and the relative illiquidity of real estate investments. at times, we have relied on external funding sources to fully fund the payment of distributions to shareholders and our capital investment program, including our existing property developments. while we have sufficient liquidity to permit distributions at current rates through additional borrowings, if necessary, any significant and sustained deterioration in operations could result in our financial resources being insufficient to make payments on our debt and to make distributions at the current rate, in which event we would be required to reduce the distribution rate. any decline in our funds from operations could adversely affect our ability to make distributions or to meet our loan covenants and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price or the trading price of our debt securities. we are dependent on a concentration of our investments in a single asset class, making our results of operations more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in the sector or other economic factors. as of december 31, 2019, substantially all of our investments are concentrated in the multifamily sector. as a result, we will be subject to risks inherent in investments in a single type of property. a downturn or slowdown in the demand for multifamily housing may have more pronounced effects on our results of operations or on the value of our assets than if we had diversified our investments into more than one asset class. our operations are concentrated in the southeast, southwest and mid-atlantic regions of the united states we are subject to general economic conditions in the regions in which we operate. as of december 31, 2019, approximately 39.9% of our portfolio is located in our top five markets: atlanta, georgia dallas, texas austin, texas charlotte, north carolina and orlando, florida. in addition, our overall operations are concentrated in the southeast, southwest and mid-atlantic regions of the united states. our performance could be adversely affected by economic conditions in, and other factors relating to, these geographic areas, including supply and demand for apartments in these areas, zoning and other regulatory conditions and competition from other communities and alternative forms of housing. in particular, our performance is disproportionately influenced by job growth and unemployment. to the extent the economic conditions, job growth and unemployment in any of these markets deteriorate or any of these areas experiences natural disasters, the value of our portfolio, our results of operations and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions could be adversely affected. failure to succeed in new markets may have adverse consequences on our performance. we may make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. our historical experience in our existing markets does not ensure that we will be able to operate successfully in new markets, should we choose to enter them. we may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including an inability to accurately evaluate local market conditions, to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities, to hire and retain key personnel and a lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. in addition, we may abandon opportunities to enter new markets that we have begun to explore for any reason and may, as a result, fail to recover expenses already incurred. substantial competition among apartment communities and real estate companies may adversely affect our revenues and development and acquisition opportunities. there are numerous other apartment communities and real estate companies, some of which may have greater financial and other resources than we have, within the market area of each of our communities that compete with us for residents and development and acquisition opportunities. the number of competitive apartment communities and real estate companies in these areas could have a material effect on (1) our ability to rent our apartments and generate revenues, and (2) development and acquisition opportunities. the activities of these competitors could cause us to pay a higher price for a new property than we otherwise would have paid or may prevent us from purchasing a desired property at all, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. acts of violence could decrease the value of our assets and could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our apartment communities could directly or indirectly be the location or target of actual or threatened terrorist attacks, crimes, shootings or other acts of violence, the occurrence of which could impact the value of our communities through damage, destruction, loss or increased security costs, as well as result in operational losses due to reduced rental demand, and the availability of insurance may be limited or may be subject to substantial costs. if such an incident were to occur at one of our apartment communities, we may also become subject to significant liability claims. in addition, the adverse effects that actual or threatened terrorist attacks could have on national economic conditions, as well as economic conditions in the markets in which we operate, could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 9 we rely on information technology systems in our operations, and any breach or security failure of those systems could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. we rely on proprietary and third-party information technology systems to process, transmit and store information and to manage or support our business processes. we store and maintain confidential financial and business information regarding us and persons with which we do business on our information technology systems. we also collect and hold personally identifiable information of our residents and prospective residents in connection with our leasing and property management activities, and we collect and hold personally identifiable information of our employees in connection with their employment. in addition, we engage third party service providers that may collect and hold personally identifiable information of our residents, prospective residents and employees in connection with providing business services to us, including web hosting, property management, leasing, accounting and payroll services. the protection of the information technology systems on which we rely is critically important to us. we take steps, and generally require third party service providers to take steps, to protect the security of the information maintained in our and our service providers' information technology systems, including the use of systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing of the information. however, we face risks associated with breaches or security failures of the information technology systems on which we rely, which could result from, among other incidents, cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses or employee error or misconduct. this risk of a data breach or security failure, particularly through cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusion, has generally increased due to the rise in new technologies and the increased sophistication and activities of the perpetrators of attempted attacks and intrusions. the security measures put in place by us and our service providers cannot provide absolute security and there can be no assurance that we or our service providers will not suffer a data security incident in the future, that unauthorized parties will not gain access to sensitive information stored on our or our service providers' systems, that such access will not, whether temporarily or permanently, impact, interfere with or interrupt our operations, or that any such incident will be discovered in a timely manner. even the most well-protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable as the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed to not be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. in addition, third-party information technology providers may not provide us with fixes or updates to hardware or software in a manner as to avoid an unauthorized loss or disclosure or to address a known vulnerability, which may subject us to known threats or downtime as a result of those delays. accordingly, we and our service providers may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures. further, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to enhance information security measures and internal processes and procedures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. a data security incident could compromise our or our service providers' information technology systems, and the information stored by us or our service providers, including personally identifiable information of residents, prospective residents and employees, could be accessed, misused, publicly disclosed, corrupted, lost or stolen. any failure to prevent a data breach or a security failure of our or our service providers' information technology systems could interrupt our operations, result in downtime, divert our planned efforts and resources from other projects, damage our reputation and brand, damage our competitive position, make it difficult for us to attract and retain residents, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. similarly, if our service providers fail to use adequate security or data protection processes, or use personal data in an unpermitted or improper manner, we may be liable for certain losses and it may damage our reputation. acquisitions of apartment communities involve various risks and may fail to meet expectations. we have acquired in the past, and if presented with attractive opportunities we intend to acquire in the future, apartment communities that meet our investment criteria. our acquisition activities and their success are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all even if we are able to finance the acquisition, cash flow from the acquisition may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments on the acquisition even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for an apartment community, we may be unable to complete the acquisition after incurring certain acquisition-related costs we may incur significant costs and divert management's attention in connection with the evaluation and negotiation of potential acquisitions, including potential acquisitions that we are subsequently unable to complete when we acquire an apartment community, we may invest additional amounts in it with the intention of increasing revenues and profitability, and these additional investments may not produce the anticipated improvements in revenues or profitability we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate acquired apartment communities and new personnel into our existing operations, and the failure to successfully integrate such apartment communities or personnel will result in inefficiencies that could adversely affect our expected return on our investments and our overall profitability and we may acquire properties that are subject to liabilities or that have problems relating to environmental condition, state of title, physical condition or compliance with zoning laws, building codes or other legal requirements and in each case, 10 our acquisition may be without any, or with only limited, recourse with respect to unknown liabilities or conditions and we may be obligated to pay substantial sums to settle or cure it, which could adversely affect our cash flow and operating results. we are subject to certain risks associated with selling apartment communities, which could limit our operational and financial flexibility. we periodically dispose of apartment communities that no longer meet our strategic objectives, but adverse market conditions may make it difficult to sell apartment communities like the ones we own. we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms we set, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. we also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. furthermore, we may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. these conditions may limit our ability to dispose of properties and to change our portfolio promptly in order to meet our strategic objectives, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the market value of our securities. we are also subject to the following risks in connection with sales of our apartment communities: a significant portion of the proceeds from our overall property sales may be held by intermediaries in order for some sales to qualify as like-kind exchanges under section 1031 of the code, so that any related capital gain can be deferred for federal income tax purposes. as a result, we may not have immediate access to all of the cash proceeds generated from our property sales. in addition, if a transaction intended to qualify as a section 1031 exchange is later determined to be taxable, we may face adverse consequences, and if the laws applicable to such transactions are amended or repealed, we may not be able to dispose of properties on a tax deferred basis. intermediary agents of section 1031 exchange transactions typically handle large sums of money in trusts. misappropriation of funds by one of these agents could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. additionally, misappropriation of funds could result in the disposal of the property not qualifying for a tax deferred basis and adversely affect our financial condition. it is also possible the qualification of a transaction as a section 1031 exchange could be successfully challenged and determined to be currently taxable. in such case, our taxable income and earnings and profits would increase, which could increase the dividend income to our shareholders by reducing any return of capital they received. in some circumstances, we may be required to pay additional dividends or, in lieu of additional dividends, corporate income tax, possibly including interest and penalties. as a result, we may be required to borrow funds in order to pay additional dividends or taxes and the payment of such taxes could cause us to have less cash available to distribute to our shareholders. in addition, if a section 1031 exchange were later to be determined to be taxable, we may be required to amend our tax returns for the applicable year in question, including any information reports sent to our shareholders and federal tax laws applicable to reits limit our ability to profit on the sale of communities, and this limitation may prevent us from selling communities when market conditions are favorable. property ownership through joint ventures could limit our ability to act exclusively in our interest. from time to time, we may acquire and/or develop properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when we believe circumstances warrant the use of such structures. in that case, we could become engaged in a dispute with one or more of our partners which might affect our ability to operate a jointly-owned property. moreover, our partners could have business, economic or other objectives that are inconsistent with our objectives, including objectives that relate to the appropriate timing and terms of any sale or refinancing of a property. in some instances, our partners could have competing interests in our markets that could create conflicts of interest. also, our partners might refuse to make capital contributions when due and we may be responsible to our partners for indemnifiable losses. in general, we and our partners could each have the right to trigger a buy-sell arrangement, which could cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partners' interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction and may result in the valuation of our interest in the joint venture (if we are the seller) or of our partners' interest in the joint venture (if we are the buyer) at levels which may not be representative of the valuation that would result from an arm's length marketing process. other potential risks of a jointly-owned property include (i) a deadlock if we and our partners are unable to agree upon certain major and other decisions, (ii) a limitation of our ability to liquidate our position in the partnership or joint venture without the consent of the other partners and (iii) a requirement to provide guarantees in favor of lenders with respect to the indebtedness of the joint venture. environmental problems are possible and can be costly. under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances in, on, around or under such property. such laws often impose such liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. the presence of, or failure to properly remediate, hazardous, toxic substances or petroleum product releases may adversely affect the owner's or operator's ability to sell or rent the affected property or to borrow using the property as collateral. persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances may also be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not the facility is owned or operated by the person. certain environmental laws impose liability for the release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may also seek recovery from owners or operators of real property for personal injury associated with asbestos- 11 containing materials and other hazardous or toxic substances. federal and state laws also regulate the operation and subsequent removal of certain underground storage tanks. in connection with the current or former ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management, development or control of real property, we may be considered an owner or operator of such apartment communities or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental fines, and claims for injuries to persons and property. our current policy is to obtain a phase i environmental study on each apartment community that we seek to acquire or develop, which generally does not involve invasive techniques such as soil or ground water sampling, and to proceed accordingly. we cannot assure you, however, that the phase i environmental studies or other environmental studies undertaken with respect to any of our current or future apartment communities will reveal: all or the full extent of potential environmental liabilities that any prior owner or operator of a property did not create any material environmental condition unknown to us that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of such apartment communities or that environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. certain environmental laws impose liability on a previous owner of property to the extent that hazardous or toxic substances were present during the prior ownership period. a transfer of the property does not relieve an owner of such liability. thus, we may have liability with respect to apartment communities previously sold by our predecessors or by us. there have been a number of lawsuits against owners and operators of multifamily apartment communities alleging personal injury and property damage caused by the presence of mold in residential real estate. some of these lawsuits have resulted in substantial monetary judgments or settlements. insurance carriers have reacted to these liability awards by excluding mold-related claims from standard policies and pricing mold endorsements separately. we have obtained a separate pollution insurance policy that covers mold-related claims and have adopted programs designed to minimize the existence of mold in any of our apartment communities as well as guidelines for promptly addressing and resolving reports of mold. to the extent not covered by our pollution policy, the presence of mold could expose us to liability from residents and others if property damage or health concerns, or allegations thereof, arise. extreme weather or natural disasters may cause property damage or disrupt business, which could harm our business and results of operations. we have apartment communities located in areas that may be subject to extreme weather and natural disasters, including, but not limited to, earthquakes, winds, floods, hurricanes and fires, the likelihood or frequency of which events could increase in part based on the potential impact of climate change. such conditions may damage our properties, disrupt our operations and adversely impact our tenants. there can be no assurances that such conditions will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. losses from catastrophes may exceed our insurance coverage, which may negatively impact our results of operations and reduce the value of our properties. we carry comprehensive liability and property insurance on our apartment communities and intend to obtain similar coverage for apartment communities we acquire in the future. some losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as losses from floods, hurricanes or earthquakes, are subject to limitations, and thus may be uninsured. we exercise our discretion in determining amounts, coverage limits and deductibility provisions of insurance, with a view to maintaining appropriate insurance on our investments at a reasonable cost and on suitable terms. if we suffer a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to pay the full current market value or current replacement value of our lost investment. inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it infeasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. any losses we experience that are not fully covered by our insurance may negatively impact our results of operations and may reduce the value of our properties. increasing real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums may negatively impact operating results. as a result of our substantial real estate holdings, the cost of real estate taxes, utilities and insuring our apartment communities is a significant component of expense. real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums are subject to significant increases and fluctuations, which can be widely outside of our control. for example, the potential impact of climate change and the increased risk of extreme weather events and natural disasters could cause a significant increase in our insurance premiums and adversely affect the availability of coverage. if the costs associated with real estate taxes, utilities and insurance premiums should rise, without being offset by a corresponding increase in revenues, our results of operations could be negatively impacted, and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions could be adversely affected. 12 compliance or failure to comply with laws and regulations, including those requiring access to our properties by disabled persons , could have an adverse effect on our operations . we must own, operate, manage, acquire, develop and redevelop our properties in compliance with numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. for example, the americans with disabilities act of 1990, the fair housing act of 1988 and other federal, state and local laws generally require that public accommodations be made accessible to disabled persons. noncompliance could result in the imposition of fines by the government or the award of damages to private litigants. these laws may require us to modify our existing apartment communities. these laws may also restrict renovations by requiring improved access to such buildings by disabled persons or may require us to add other structural features that increase our construction costs. we cannot ascertain the costs of compliance with these laws, which may be substantial. we do not know whether the legal requirements we are subject to will change or whether new requirements will be imposed. changes in laws and regulations could require us to make significant unanticipated expenditures, impose limitations on our ability to raise rents or charge certain fees or otherwise adversely impact our operations. for example, we generally have seen growing activism from tenant advocacy groups, which often urge state and local governments to consider enacting rent control or rent stabilization laws and regulations as well as tenants' rights laws and regulations. any such future enactments in the markets in which we operate could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations and the value of our properties. development and construction risks could impact our profitability. as of december 31, 2019, we had seven development communities under construction totaling 2,108 units. we may make further investments in these and other development communities as opportunities arise and may do so through joint ventures with unaffiliated parties. our development and construction activities are subject to the following risks: we may be unable to obtain, or face delays in obtaining, necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations, which could result in increased development costs, could delay initial occupancy dates for all or a portion of a development community and could require us to abandon our activities entirely with respect to a project for which we are unable to obtain permits or authorizations we may be unable to obtain financing for development activities under favorable terms, which could cause a delay in construction resulting in increased costs, decreases in revenue and potentially cause us to abandon the opportunity yields may be less than anticipated as a result of delays in completing projects, costs that exceed budget, higher than expected concessions for lease-up and lower rents than initially estimated bankruptcy of developers in our development projects could impose delays and costs on us with respect to the development of our communities and may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations we may abandon development opportunities that we have already begun to explore, and we may fail to recover expenses already incurred in connection with exploring such opportunities we may be unable to complete construction and lease-up of an apartment community on schedule, or incur development or construction costs that exceed our original estimates and we may be unable to charge rents that would compensate for any increase in such costs occupancy rates and rents at a newly developed apartment community may fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including market and economic conditions, preventing us from meeting our profitability goals for that community when we sell to third parties apartment communities or properties that we developed or renovated, we may be subject to warranty or construction defects that are uninsured or exceed the limit of our insurance our failure to successfully enter into a joint venture agreement may prohibit an otherwise advantageous investment if we cannot raise the money through other means and adoption of laws and regulations designed to address climate change and its effects, including, for example, green building codes, could increase our costs of development and cause delays in the construction of our development communities. short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market rents and we may be unable to renew leases or relet units as leases expire. our apartment leases are generally for a term of one year or less. as these leases typically permit the residents to leave at the end of the lease term without penalty, our revenues are impacted by declines in market rents more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the units, or if the rental rates upon renewal or reletting are significantly lower than expected rates, then our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. legal proceedings that we become involved in from time to time could adversely affect our business. as an owner, operator and developer of multifamily apartment communities, we may become involved in various legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, proceedings related to commercial, development, employment, environmental, securities, shareholder, tenant or tort legal issues, some of which could result in a class action lawsuit. for example, as described in more detail 13 in legal proceedings and note 1 1 to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, we are currently a defendant in two class action lawsuits relating to tenant late fee policies at our texas apartment communities. legal proceedings, if decided adversely to or settled by us, and not covered by insurance, could result in liability material to our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. likewise, regardless of outcome, legal proceedings could result in substantial costs and expenses, affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage and significantly divert the attention of our management. there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, any pending or future legal proceedings to which we become subject. risks related to our indebtedness and financing activities our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. as of december 31, 2019, the amount of our total debt was approximately $4.5 billion. we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in connection with, among other things, our acquisition, development and operating activities. the degree of our leverage creates significant risks, including the following: we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our funds from operations to servicing our debt and our cash flow may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest debt service obligations will reduce funds available for distribution and funds available for acquisitions, development and redevelopment we may be more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns than our competitors that have less debt we may be limited in our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions we may default on our indebtedness, which could result in acceleration of those obligations, assignment of rents and leases and loss of properties to foreclosure and if one of our subsidiaries defaults, it could trigger a cross default or cross acceleration provision under other indebtedness, which could cause an immediate default or could allow the lenders to declare all funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable. if any one of these events was to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we may be unable to renew, repay or refinance our outstanding debt, which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to the normal risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of principal and interest, the risk that either secured or unsecured indebtedness will not be able to be renewed, repaid or refinanced when due or that the terms of any renewal or refinancing will not be as favorable as the existing terms of such indebtedness. if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, if at all, we might be forced to dispose of one or more of our apartment communities on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us. such losses could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. furthermore, if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose upon the property, appoint a receiver and receive an assignment of rents and leases or pursue other remedies, all with a consequent loss of our revenues and asset value. foreclosures could also create taxable income without accompanying cash proceeds, thereby hindering our ability to meet the reit distribution requirements of the code. rising interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. we have incurred and expect in the future to incur indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates. interest rates could increase, which could result in higher interest expense on our variable-rate debt or increase interest rates when refinancing maturing fixed-rate debt, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions or cause us to be in default under certain debt instruments. in addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead holders of shares of our common stock to demand a higher yield on their shares from distributions by us, which could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. any increase in the federal funds rate due to key economic indicators, such as the unemployment rate or inflation, may cause interest rates and borrowing costs to rise, which may negatively impact our ability to access the debt markets on favorable terms. any continued adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the uncertainty regarding the potential phase-out of libor could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. libor is the basic rate of interest used in lending between banks on the london interbank market and is widely used as a reference for setting the interest rate on loans globally. libor is the interest rate benchmark used as a reference rate on our variable 14 rate debt, including our unsecured revolving credit facility . libor is expected to be phased out after 2021, when private-sector banks are no longer required to report the information used to set the rate. without this data, libor may no longer be published, or the lack of quality and quantity of data may cause the rate to no longer be representative of the market. at this time, no consensus exists as to what rate or rates will become accepted alternatives to libor, although the u.s. federal reserve, in connection with the alternative reference rates committee, a steering committee comprised of large u.s. financial institutions, is considering replacing u.s. dollar libor with the secured overnight financing rate , or sofr. sofr is a more generic measure than libor and considers the cost of borrowing cash overnight, collateralized by u.s. treasury securities. given the inherent differences between libor and sofr or any other alternative benchmark rate that may be established, there are many uncertainties regarding a transition from libor, including , but not limited to , how this will impact our cost of variable rate debt. the consequences of these developments with respect to libor cannot be entirely predicted and will span multiple future periods but could result in an increase in the cost of our variable rate debt , which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows . we may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely impact our financial condition. we currently fund the acquisition and development of apartment communities partially through borrowings (including our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility) as well as from other sources such as sales of apartment communities which no longer meet our investment criteria. in addition, we may fund other of our capital requirements through additional debt. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur, and we may incur more debt in the future. accordingly, subject to limitations on indebtedness set forth in various loan agreements and the indentures governing our senior notes, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service and an increased risk of default on our obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, our ability to access debt and equity capital markets in the future and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. the restrictive terms of certain of our indebtedness may cause acceleration of debt payments. as of december 31, 2019, we had outstanding borrowings of approximately $4.5 billion. our indebtedness contains financial covenants as to interest coverage ratios, maximum secured debt, maintenance of unencumbered asset value, and total debt to gross assets, among others, and cross default provisions with other material debt. our ability to comply with these financial covenants may be affected by changes in our operating and financial performance, changes in general business and economic conditions, adverse regulatory developments or other events adversely impacting us. in the event that an event of default occurs, our lenders may declare borrowings under the respective loan agreements to be due and payable immediately, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. failure to hedge effectively against interest rates may adversely affect our results of operations. from time to time, we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest rate swap agreements. these agreements involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. hedging may reduce overall returns on our investments. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. a downgrade in our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a significant amount of debt outstanding. we are currently assigned corporate credit ratings from each of the three ratings agencies based on their evaluation of our creditworthiness. these ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength, liquidity, capital structure, asset quality and sustainability of cash flows and earnings. if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, we could be required to pay additional interest and fees on our outstanding borrowings. in addition, a downgrade may adversely impact our ability to borrow secured and unsecured debt and otherwise limit our access to capital, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. financing may not be available and could be dilutive. our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the occupancy and turnover rates of our apartment communities, development and capital expenditures, costs of operations and potential acquisitions. we cannot accurately predict the timing and amount of our capital requirements. if our capital requirements vary materially from our plans, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. we and other companies in the real estate industry have experienced limited availability of financing from time to time. dislocations and liquidity disruptions in capital and credit markets could impact liquidity in the debt markets, which could result in financing terms that are less attractive to us and/or the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. likewise, disruptions could impede the ability of our counterparties to perform on their contractual obligations. should the capital and credit markets experience volatility and the availability of funds again becomes limited, or be available only on unattractive terms, we will incur increased costs 15 associated with issuing debt instruments. in addition, it is possible that our ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited or precluded by these or other factors at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which would adversely impact our ability to refinance maturing debt and/or react to changing economic and business conditions. uncertainty in the credit markets could negatively impact our ability to make acquisitions and make it more difficult or not possible for us to sell properties or may adversely affect the price we receive for properties that we do sell, as prospective buyers may experience increased costs of debt financing or difficulties in obtaining debt financing. potential continued disruptions in the financial markets could also have other unknown adverse effects on us or the economy generally and may cause the price of our securities to fluctuate significantly and/or to decline. if we issue additional equity securities to obtain additional financing, the interest of our existing shareholders could be diluted . risks related to maa's organization and ownership of its stock maa's ownership limit restricts the transferability of its capital stock. maa's charter limits ownership of its capital stock by any single shareholder to 9.9% of the value of all outstanding shares of its capital stock, both common and preferred, unless approved by its board of directors. the charter also prohibits anyone from buying shares if the purchase would result in it losing reit status. this could happen if a share transaction results in fewer than 100 persons owning all of its shares or in five or fewer persons, applying certain broad attribution rules of the code, owning 50% or more of its shares. if an investor acquires shares in excess of the ownership limit or in violation of the ownership requirements of the code for reits, maa: will consider the transfer to be null and void will not reflect the transaction on its books may institute legal action to enjoin the transaction will not pay dividends or other distributions with respect to those shares will not recognize any voting rights for those shares will consider the shares held in trust for its benefit and will either direct the holder to sell the shares and turn over any profit to maa, or maa will redeem the shares. if maa redeems the shares, the holder will be paid a price equal to the lesser of: o the principal price paid for the shares by the holder, o a price per share equal to the market price (as determined in the manner set forth in its charter) of the applicable capital stock, o the market price (as so determined) on the date such holder would, but for the restrictions on transfers set forth in its charter, be deemed to have acquired ownership of the shares, and o the maximum price allowed under the tennessee greenmail act (such price being the average of the highest and lowest closing market price for the shares during the 30 trading days preceding the purchase of such shares or, if the holder of such shares has commenced a tender offer or has announced an intention to seek control of maa, during the 30 trading days preceding the commencement of such tender offer or the making of such announcement). the redemption price may be paid, at maa's option, by delivering one common unit (subject to adjustment from time to time in the event of, among other things, stock splits, stock dividends or recapitalizations affecting its common stock or certain mergers, consolidations or asset transfers by maa) issued by the operating partnership for each excess share being redeemed. if an investor acquires shares in violation of the limits on ownership described above: the holder may lose its power to dispose of the shares the holder may not recognize profit from the sale of such shares if the market price of the shares increases and the holder may be required to recognize a loss from the sale of such shares if the market price decreases. future offerings of debt or equity securities, which may rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. if we decide to issue additional debt securities in the future, which would rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that they will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. additionally, any equity securities or convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. we and, indirectly, our shareholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings. thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings. 16 the form, timing and amount of dividend distributions in future periods may vary and be impacted by economic and other considerations. though our board of directors has a history of declaring dividends in advance of the quarter they are paid, the form, timing and amount of dividend distributions will be declared, and standing practice changed, at the discretion of the board of directors. the form, timing and amount of dividend distributions will depend on actual cash from operations, our financial condition, capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the reit provisions of the code and other factors as our board of directors may consider relevant. our board of directors may modify our dividend policy from time to time. provisions of maa's charter and tennessee law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of maa. ownership limit the 9.9% ownership limit discussed above may have the effect of precluding acquisition of control of maa by a third party without the consent of our board of directors. preferred stock maa's charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, 868,000 of which have been designated as 8.50% series i cumulative redeemable preferred stock, which we refer to as maa series i preferred stock. in addition to the maa series i preferred stock, the board of directors may establish the preferences and rights of any other series of preferred shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing someone from taking control of maa, even if a change in control were in maa shareholders' best interests. as of december 31, 2019, 867,846 shares of preferred stock were issued and outstanding, all of which shares were maa series i preferred stock. tennessee anti-takeover statutes as a tennessee corporation, maa is subject to various legislative acts, which impose restrictions on and require compliance with procedures designed to protect shareholders against unfair or coercive mergers and acquisitions. these statutes may delay or prevent offers to acquire maa and increase the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if maa's acquisition would be in maa shareholders' best interests. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common stock. the market price of shares of common stock of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's common stock may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common stock to go down. in addition, although maa's common stock is listed on the nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's common stock may be lower than the trading volume for companies in other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of maa's common stock. changes in market conditions or a failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to our results of operations and cash distributions could adversely affect the market price of maa's common stock. we believe that the market value of a reit's equity securities is based primarily upon the market's perception of the reit's growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, and is secondarily based upon the real estate market value of the underlying assets. for that reason, maa's common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net asset value per share. to the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of maa's common stock. in addition, we are subject to the risk that our cash flow will be insufficient to pay distributions to maa's shareholders. our failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of maa's common stock. the stock markets, including the nyse, on which maa lists its common stock, have, at times, experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. as a result, the market price of maa's common stock could be similarly volatile, and investors in maa's common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. among the market conditions that may affect the market price of maa's publicly traded securities are the following: our financial condition and operating performance and the performance of other similar companies actual or anticipated differences in our quarterly and annual operating results changes in our revenues or earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts publication of research reports about us or our industry by securities analysts 17 additions and departures of key personnel inability to access the capital markets strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, dispositions, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy the issuance of additional shares of maa's common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, including under maa's at-the-market share offering program, or atm program the reputation of reits generally and the reputation of reits with portfolios similar to ours the attractiveness of the securities of reits in comparison to securities issued by other entities (including securities issued by other real estate companies) an increase in market interest rates, which may lead prospective investors to demand a higher distribution rate in relation to the price paid for maa's common stock the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments that adversely affect us or our industry speculation in the press or investment community actions by institutional shareholders or hedge funds changes in accounting principles terrorist acts and general market conditions, including factors unrelated to our performance. in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. this type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. risks related to the operating partnership's organization and ownership of op units the operating partnership's existing unitholders have limited approval rights, which may prevent the operating partnership's sole general partner, maa, from completing a change of control transaction that may be in the best interests of all unitholders of the operating partnership and all shareholders of maa. maa may not engage in a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the operating partnership, dissolve the operating partnership or, upon the occurrence of certain triggering events, take any action that would result in any unitholder realizing taxable gain, without the approval of the holders of a majority of the outstanding op units held by holders other than maa or its affiliates, or class a op units. the right of the holders of our class a op units to vote on these transactions could limit maa's ability to complete a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interest of all unitholders of the operating partnership and all shareholders of maa. in certain circumstances, certain of the operating partnership's unitholders must approve the operating partnership's sale of certain properties contributed by the unitholders. in certain circumstances, as detailed in the partnership agreement of the operating partnership, the operating partnership may not sell or otherwise transfer certain properties unless a specified percentage of the limited partners who were partners in the limited partnership holding such properties at the time of its acquisition by us approves such sale or transfer. the exercise of these approval rights by the operating partnership's unitholders could delay or prevent the operating partnership from completing a transaction that may be in the best interest of all unitholders of the operating partnership and all shareholders of maa. maa, its officers and directors have substantial influence over the operating partnership's affairs. maa, as the operating partnership's sole general partner and acting through its officers and directors, has a substantial influence on the operating partnership's affairs. maa, its officers and directors could exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interest of the unitholders of the operating partnership. also, maa owns approximately 96.6% of the op units and as such, will have substantial influence on the outcome of substantially all matters submitted to the operating partnership's unitholders for approval. market interest rates and low trading volume may have an adverse effect on the market value of maa's common stock, which would affect the redemption price of the op units. the market price of shares of common stock of a reit may be affected by the distribution rate on those shares, as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. if market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of maa's common stock may expect a higher annual distribution rate. higher interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for maa to distribute and, in fact, would likely increase maa's borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. this could cause the market price of maa's common stock to go down, which would reduce the price received upon redemption of any op units, or if maa so elects, the value of maa's common stock received in lieu of cash upon redemption of such op units. in addition, although maa's common stock is listed on the nyse, the daily trading volume of maa's common stock may be lower than the trading volume for companies in other industries. as a result, maa's investors who desire to liquidate substantial holdings may 18 find that they are unable to dispose of their shares in the market without causing a substantial decline in the market value of maa's common stock. insufficient cash flow from operations or a decline in the market price of maa's common stock may reduce the amount of cash available to the operating partnership to meet its obligations. the operating partnership is subject to the risk that its cash flow will be insufficient to make payments on its debt and to make distributions to its unitholders, which may cause maa to not have the funds to make distributions to its shareholders. maa's failure to meet the market's expectations with regard to future results of operations and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of its shares and thus potentially reduce maa's ability to contribute funds from issuances down to the operating partnership, resulting in a lower level of cash available for investment, to make payments on its debt or to make distributions to its unitholders. risks related to tax laws failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders. if maa fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, maa will be subject to federal income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate rates without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction applicable to reits. in addition, unless maa is entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, maa would be ineligible to make an election for treatment as a reit for the four taxable years following the year in which it loses its qualification. the additional tax liability resulting from the failure to qualify as a reit would significantly reduce or eliminate the amount of funds available for distribution to maa's shareholders. maa's failure to qualify as a reit also could impair its ability to expand its business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of maa's common stock. maa believes that it is organized and qualified as a reit, and maa intends to operate in a manner that will allow it to continue to qualify as a reit. maa cannot assure, however, that it is qualified or will remain qualified as a reit. this is because qualification as a reit involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations and involves the determination of a variety of factual matters and circumstances not entirely within maa's control. in addition, future legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly change the tax laws or the application of the tax laws with respect to qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes or the federal income tax consequences of qualification as a reit. even if maa qualifies as a reit, maa will be subject to various federal, state and local taxes, including property taxes and income taxes on taxable income that maa does not timely distribute to its shareholders. in addition, maa may hold certain assets and engage in certain activities that a reit could not engage in directly through its taxable reit subsidiaries, or trs, and those trs will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates on their taxable income without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction applicable to reits. furthermore, we have a subsidiary that has elected to be treated as a reit, and if our subsidiary reit were to fail to qualify as a reit, it is possible that we also would fail to qualify as a reit unless we (or the subsidiary reit) could qualify for certain relief provisions. the qualification of our subsidiary reit as a reit will depend on satisfaction, on an annual or quarterly basis, of numerous requirements set forth in highly technical and complex provisions of the code for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. a determination as to whether such requirements are satisfied involves various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. the fact that we hold substantially all of our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements for us. no assurance can be given that our subsidiary reit will qualify as a reit for any particular year. if any reit previously acquired by us failed to qualify as a reit for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we would incur adverse tax consequences and our financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. in the past, we have acquired companies that operated in a manner intended to allow them to qualify as reits for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if any such reit previously acquired by maa, referred to as a merged reit, is determined to have lost its reit status at any time prior to its merger with maa, maa would be subject to serious adverse tax consequences, including: maa would be required to pay u.s. federal income tax at regular corporate rates on the taxable income of such merged reit without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction for the taxable years that the merged reit did not qualify as a reit and for which the statute of limitations period remains open and maa would be required to pay any federal alternative minimum tax liability of the merged reit and any applicable state and local tax liability, in each case, for all taxable years that remain open under the applicable statute of limitations periods. maa is liable for any tax liability of a merged reit with respect to any periods prior to the merger of such merged reit with maa. if a merged reit failed to qualify as a reit, then in the event of a taxable disposition by maa of an asset previously 19 held by the merged reit during a specified period of up to 5 years following the merger of the merged reit with maa, maa will be subject to corporate income tax with respect to any built-in gain inherent in such asset as of the date of such merger. in addition, unless an applicable statutory relief provision applies, if a merged reit failed to qualify as a reit for a taxable year, then the merged reit would not have been entitled to re-elect to be taxed as a reit until the fifth taxable year following the year during which it was disqualified. furthermore, if both maa and a merged reit were investment companies under the investment company rules set forth in section 368 of the code at the time of the merger of maa and such merged reit, the failure of maa or such merged reit to have qualified as a reit at the time of their merger could result in such merger being treated as taxable for federal income tax purposes. as a result of all these factors, the failure by a merged reit to have qualified as a reit could jeopardize maa's qualification as a reit and require the operating partnership to provide material amounts of cash to maa to satisfy maa's additional tax liabilities and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on maa's business prospects, financial condition or results of operations and on maa's ability to make payments on our debt and to make distributions. the operating partnership may fail to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. we believe that the operating partnership qualifies, and has so qualified since its formation, as a partnership for federal income tax purposes and not as a publicly traded partnership taxable as a corporation. no assurance can be provided, however, that the internal revenue service, or irs, will not challenge the treatment of the operating partnership as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. if the irs were successful in treating the operating partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, then the taxable income of the operating partnership would be taxable at regular corporate income tax rates. in addition, the treatment of the operating partnership as a corporation would cause maa to fail to qualify as a reit. see failure to qualify as a reit would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would significantly reduce funds available for distribution to shareholders above. certain dispositions of property by us may generate prohibited transaction income, resulting in a 100% penalty tax on any gain attributable to the disposition. any gain resulting from a transfer of property that we hold as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business would be treated for federal income tax purposes as income from a prohibited transaction that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. since we acquire properties for investment purposes, we do not believe that our occasional transfers or disposals of property would be considered prohibited transactions. whether property is held for investment purposes is a question of fact that depends on all the facts and circumstances surrounding the particular transaction. as such, the irs may contend that certain transfers or disposals of properties by us are prohibited transactions. if the irs were to argue successfully that a transfer or disposition of property constituted a prohibited transaction, then we would be required to pay a 100% penalty tax on any gain allocable to us from the prohibited transaction. in addition, income from a prohibited transaction might adversely affect our ability to satisfy the income tests for qualification as a reit for federal income tax purposes. a safe harbor to the characterization of the disposition of property as a prohibited transaction and the resulting imposition of the 100% tax is available however, we cannot assure that we will be able to comply with such safe harbor in connection with any property dispositions. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. market risk includes risks that arise from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, equity prices and other market changes that affect market sensitive instruments. our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates on our borrowings. as of december 31, 2019, 22.2% of our total market capitalization consisted of debt borrowings. our interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve this objective, we manage our exposure to fluctuations in market interest rates for borrowings through the use of fixed rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps, which mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument and effectively fix the interest rate on a portion of our variable debt or on future refinancings. we use our best efforts to have our debt instruments mature across multiple years, which we believe limits our exposure to interest rate changes in any one year. we do not enter into derivative instruments for trading or other speculative purposes. as of december 31, 2019, 98.4% of our outstanding debt was subject to fixed rates after considering related derivative instruments. we regularly review interest rate exposure on outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. weighted average variable rates are based on rates in effect as of december 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands). 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 total thereafter total fair value liability long-term debt fixed rate $ 141,108 $ 192,903 $ 368,401 $ 363,731 $ 421,566 $ 2,614,108 $ 4,101,817 $ 4,457,784 average interest rate 3.97 % 5.20 % 3.60 % 4.20 % 4.00 % 3.90 % 4.00 % variable rate (1) $ 70,000 $ $ 300,000 $ $ $ $ 370,000 $ 370,814 average interest rate 2.05 % % 2.64 % % % % 2.53 % (1) as of december 31, 2019, we maintained one unsecured term loan totaling $300.0 million that matures in march 2022. the term loan bears interest at a rate of libor plus a spread of 0.90% to 1.75% based on the credit ratings of our unsecured debt. as of december 31, 2019, the loan was bearing interest at a rate of one month libor plus 0.95%. the interest rate of the unsecured term loan was fixed at 2.32% with interest rate swaps that mature in january 2020. the fair value asset of the interest rate derivative contracts designated as hedging instruments was $0.1 million as of december 31, 2019. 35