risk factors 7 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 27risk factors 7 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information related to this item is set forth under the heading management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 18 through 21 and under note 3 credit facilities on pages 29 and 30 of the company annual report to shareholders for the year ended december 31, 2001, and is incorporated herein by reference. -9- table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information related to this item is set forth under the heading management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 18 through 23 and under note 4 credit facilities on page 33 of the company annual report to shareholders for the year ended december 31, 2002, and is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. information related to this item is set forth under the heading management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations on pages 13 through 18 and under note 4 credit facilities on page 28 of the company annual report to shareholders for the year ended december 31, 2003, and is incorporated herein by reference.risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors risk factors. forward-looking statements some statements in this report, as well as in other materials we file with the sec or otherwise release to the public and in materials that we make available on our website, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. senior officers may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, the media and others that are forward-looking. forward-looking statements may relate, for example to our future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, economic performance (including growth and earnings), industry conditions and demand for our products and services. the company cautions that its forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and while we believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in view of currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. actual results or events may differ materially from those indicated as a result of various important factors. such factors include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and in other documents that we file with the sec. forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements. you are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our forms 10-q and form 8-k reports to the sec. risks relating to our company we depend on our relationships with our vendors. as a distributor of automotive replacement parts, industrial parts, office products and electrical/electronic materials, our business is dependent on developing and maintaining close and productive relationships with our vendors. we depend on our vendors to sell us quality products at favorable prices. many factors outside our control may harm these relationships. for example, financial or operational difficulties with a vendor could cause that vendor to increase the cost of the products we purchase from it. vendor consolidation could also limit the number of suppliers from which we may purchase products and could materially affect the prices we pay for these products. also, consolidation among automotive parts or industrial parts and office product suppliers could disrupt our relationship with some vendors. a disruption of our vendor relationships or a disruption in our vendors operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our business and results of operations could be impacted by certain laws. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the operation of our business, such as laws and regulations relating to environmental and employment matters, as well as changes in accounting and taxation guidance. because such laws and regulations are subject to change without notice, we cannot anticipate the potential costs of compliance. on the other hand, if we fail to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions. there can be no assurance that the cost of compliance, or a material failure by us to comply, with these laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on us in the future. risks relating to our industry our business may be impacted by general economic conditions and local, national and global events. our business and results of operations also may be impacted by general economic conditions, conditions in local markets or other factors that we cannot control, including: job growth and unemployment conditions, industrial output and capacity and capital expenditures, reduction in manufacturing capacity in our targeted geographic markets due to consolidation and the transfer of manufacturing capacity to foreign countries, weather, terrorist acts, pricing pressures of our competitors and customers, shortages of fuel or interruptions in transportation systems, labor strikes, work stoppages, or other interruptions to or difficulties in the employment of labor in the major markets where we operate, changes in interest rates, inflation or currency exchange rates, changes in accounting policies and practices and changes in regulatory policies and practices. -8- table of contents our business may be materially affected if demand for our products slows. our business depends on customer demand for the products that we distribute. demand for these products depends on many factors. with respect to our automotive group, the primary factors are: the number of miles vehicles are driven annually, as higher vehicle mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair; the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle manufacturers and the length of the warranty or maintenance offered on new vehicles; the number of vehicles in current service that are six years old and older, as these vehicles are typically no longer under the original vehicle manufacturers warranty and will need more maintenance and repair than newer vehicles; restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair information imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by governmental regulation; and the economy generally. we face substantial competition in the industries in which we do business. the industries in which we do business are highly competitive. the sale of automotive and industrial parts, office products and electronic materials is highly competitive and impacted by many factors including name recognition, product availability, customer service, anticipating changing customer preferences, store location, and pricing pressures. increased competition among distributors of automotive and industrial parts, office products and electronic materials, including internet-related initiatives, could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in particular, the market for replacement automotive parts is highly competitive and subjects us to a wide variety of competitors. we compete primarily with national and regional auto parts chains, independently owned automotive parts and accessories stores, automobile dealers that supply manufacturer replacement parts and accessories, mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs that sell automotive products and regional and local full service automotive repair shops. if we are unable to continue to develop successful competitive strategies, or if our competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors. forward-looking statements some statements in this report, as well as in other materials we file with the sec or otherwise release to the public and in materials that we make available on our website, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. senior officers may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, the media and others that are forward-looking. forward-looking statements may relate, for example, to our future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, economic performance (including growth and earnings), industry conditions and demand for our products and services. the company cautions that its forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and while we believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in view of currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. actual results or events may differ materially from those indicated as a result of various important factors. such factors include, but are not limited to, those set forth below and in other documents that we file with the sec. forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements except as required by law. you are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our form 10-q, form 8-k and other reports to the sec. risks relating to our company we depend on our relationships with our vendors. as a distributor of automotive replacement parts, industrial parts, office products and electrical/electronic materials, our business depends on developing and maintaining close and productive relationships with our vendors. we depend on our vendors to sell us quality products at favorable prices. many factors outside our control may harm these relationships. for example, financial or operational difficulties with a vendor could cause that vendor to increase the cost of the products we purchase from it. vendor consolidation could also limit the number of suppliers from which we may purchase products and could materially affect the prices we pay for these products. also, consolidation among automotive parts or industrial parts and office product suppliers could disrupt our relationship with some vendors. a disruption of our vendor relationships or a disruption in our vendors operations could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our business and results of operations could be impacted by certain laws. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to the operation of our business, such as laws and regulations relating to environmental and employment matters, as well as changes in accounting and taxation guidance. because such laws and regulations are subject to change without notice, we cannot anticipate the potential costs of compliance. on the other hand, if we fail to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions. there can be no assurance that the cost of compliance, or a material failure by us to comply, with these laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on us in the future. risks relating to our industry our business may be impacted by general economic conditions and local, national and global events. our business and results of operations also may be impacted by general economic conditions, conditions in local markets or other factors that we cannot control, including: job growth and unemployment conditions, industrial output and capacity and capital expenditures, reduction in manufacturing capacity in our targeted geographic markets due to consolidation and the transfer of manufacturing capacity to foreign countries, weather, terrorist acts, pricing pressures of our competitors and customers, shortages of fuel or interruptions in transportation systems, labor strikes, work stoppages, or other interruptions to or difficulties in the employment of labor in the major markets where we operate, changes in interest rates, inflation or currency exchange rates, changes in accounting policies and practices and changes in regulatory policies and practices. our business may be materially affected if demand for our products slows. our business depends on customer demand for the products that we distribute. demand for these products depends on many factors. with respect to our automotive group, the primary factors are: the number of miles vehicles are driven annually, as higher vehicle mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair; the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle manufacturers and the length of the warranty or maintenance offered on new vehicles; the number of vehicles in current service that are six years old and older, as these vehicles are typically no longer under the original vehicle manufacturers warranty and will need more maintenance and repair than newer vehicles; restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair information imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by governmental regulation; and the economy generally. we face substantial competition in the industries in which we do business. the industries in which we do business are highly competitive. the sale of automotive and industrial parts, office products and electronic materials is highly competitive and impacted by many factors including name recognition, product availability, customer service, anticipating changing customer preferences, store location, and pricing pressures. increased competition among distributors of automotive and industrial parts, office products and electronic materials, including internet-related initiatives, could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in particular, the market for replacement automotive parts is highly competitive and subjects us to a wide variety of competitors. we compete primarily with national and regional auto parts chains, independently owned regional and local automotive parts and accessories stores, automobile dealers that supply manufacturer replacement parts and accessories, mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs that sell automotive products and regional and local full service automotive repair shops. if we are unable to continue to develop successful competitive strategies, including internet related initiatives, or if our competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline.risk factors. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk.risk factors we face substantial competition in the industries in which we do business. napa . the company is the sole member of the national automotive parts association, a voluntary association formed in 1925 to provide nationwide distribution of automotive parts. napa, which neither buys nor sells automotive parts, functions as a trade association and whose sole member in 2015 owned and operated 59 distribution centers located throughout the united states. napa develops marketing concepts and programs that may be used by its members which, at december 31, 2015, includes only the company. it is not involved in the chain of distribution. among the automotive products purchased by the company from various manufacturers for distribution are certain lines designated, cataloged, advertised and promoted as napa lines. generally, the company is not required to purchase any specific quantity of parts so designated and it may, and does, purchase competitive lines from the same as well as other supply sources. the company uses the federally registered trademark napa &reg; as part of the trade name of its distribution centers and parts stores. the company contributes to napa national advertising program, which is designed to increase public recognition of the napa name and to promote napa product lines. the company is a party, together with the former members of napa, to a consent decree entered by the federal district court in detroit, michigan, on may 4, 1954. the consent decree enjoins certain practices under the federal antitrust laws, including the use of exclusive agreements with manufacturers of automotive parts, allocation or division of territories among the company and former napa members, fixing of prices or terms of sale for such parts among such members, and agreements to adhere to any uniform policy in selecting parts customers or determining the number and location of, or arrangements with, auto parts customers. industrial parts group the industrial parts group is operated as motion industries, inc. ( motion ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company headquartered in birmingham, alabama. motion distributes industrial replacement parts and related supplies such as bearings, mechanical and electrical power transmission products, industrial automation, hose, hydraulic and pneumatic components, industrial and safety supplies and material handling products to mro (maintenance, repair and operation) and oem (original equipment manufacturer) customers throughout the united states, canada and mexico. in canada, industrial parts are distributed by motion industries (canada), inc. ( motion canada ). the mexican market is served by motion mexico de rl de cv ( motion mexico ). these organizations operate in the company north american structure. in 2015, the industrial parts group served more than 150,000 customers in all types of industries located throughout north america, including the food and beverage, forest products, primary metals, pulp and paper, mining, automotive, oil and gas, petrochemical and pharmaceutical industries; as well as strategically targeted specialty industries such as power generation, wastewater treatment facilities, alternative energy, government, transportation, ports, and others. motion services all manufacturing and processing industries with access to a database of 6.5 million parts. additionally, motion provides u.s. government agencies access to approximately 400,000 products and replacement parts through a government services administration (gsa) schedule. 5 table of contents effective february 1, 2015, motion expanded its product and service offering in alaska with the acquisition of oil &amp; gas supply, located in anchorage, alaska. we expect this business to generate $2-3 million in annual revenues. effective february 2, 2015, motion acquired miller bearings, a regional industrial distributor of bearings, power transmission products, industrial and safety supplies, hydraulic and pneumatic components. headquartered in orlando, florida, miller operates 17 branch locations throughout the state and one distribution center. in addition, miller has an export office providing industrial mro products to puerto rico, the dominican republic and other caribbean customers. miller generates approximately $40 million in annual revenues and is operated as miller industrial solutions, a division of motion industries. in 2015, the industrial parts group also acquired lake erie abrasive and tool ( leat ) and moss rubber. leat was acquired on september 1, 2015, and is a distributor of abrasive tooling for the manufacturing industry. moss rubber was acquired december 1, 2015, and is a distributor of industrial rubber products including hose, belting, fittings and related products. leat and moss rubber are expected to generate annual revenues of approximately $30 million and $8 million, respectively. the industrial parts group provides customers with supply chain efficiencies achieved through the company inventory management solutions offering. this service provides inventory management, asset repair and tracking, vendor managed inventory commonly referred to as vmi, as well as rfid asset management of the customer inventory. motion energy services team routinely performs in-plant surveys and assessments, helping customers reduce their energy consumption and finding opportunities for improved sustainability, ultimately helping customers operate more profitably. motion also provides a wide range of services and repairs such as: gearbox and fluid power assembly repair, process pump assembly and repair, hydraulic drive shaft repair, electrical panel assembly and repair, hose and gasket manufacture and assembly, as well as many other value-added services. a highly developed supply chain with vendor partnerships and connectivity are enhanced by motion leading e-business capabilities, such as misupplierconnect, which provides integration between the company information technology network and suppliers systems, creating numerous benefits for both the supplier and customer. these services and supply chain efficiencies assist motion in meeting the cost savings that many of its customers require and expect. distribution system . in north america, the industrial parts group operated 533 branches, 15 distribution centers and 46 service centers as of december 31, 2015. the distribution centers stock and distribute more than 260,000 different items purchased from more than 1,025 different suppliers. the service centers provide hydraulic, hose and mechanical repairs for customers. approximately 33% of 2015 total industrial product purchases were made from 10 major suppliers. sales are generated from the industrial parts group branches located in 49 states, puerto rico, nine provinces in canada, and mexico. each branch has warehouse facilities that stock significant amounts of inventory representative of the products used by customers in the respective market area served. products . the industrial parts group distributes a wide variety of parts and products to its customers, which are primarily industrial concerns. products include such items as hoses, belts, bearings, pulleys, pumps, valves, chains, gears, sprockets, speed reducers, electric motors, and industrial supplies. in recent years, motion expanded its offering to include systems and automation products in response to the increasing sophistication of motion control and process automation for full systems integration of plant equipment. manufacturing trends and government policies have led to opportunities in the green and energy-efficient product markets, focusing on product offerings such as energy-efficient motors and drives, recyclable and environmentally friendly parts and supplies. the nature of this group business demands the maintenance of adequate inventories and the ability to promptly meet demanding delivery requirements. virtually all of the products distributed are installed by the customer or used in plant and facility maintenance activities. most orders are filled immediately from existing stock and deliveries are normally made within 24 hours of receipt of order. the majority of all sales are on open account. motion has ongoing purchase agreements with existing customers that represent approximately 50% of the annual sales volume. 6 table of contents supply agreements . non-exclusive distributor agreements are in effect with most of the industrial parts group suppliers. the terms of these agreements vary; however, it has been the experience of the industrial parts group that the custom of the trade is to treat such agreements as continuing until breached by one party or until terminated by mutual consent. motion has return privileges with most of its suppliers, which has protected the company from inventory obsolescence. segment data . in the year ended december 31, 2015, sales from the company industrial parts group approximated 30% of the company net sales, as compared to 31% in 2014 and 2013. for additional segment information, see note 10 of notes to consolidated financial statements beginning on page f-1. competition . the industrial parts distribution business is highly competitive. the industrial parts group competes with other distributors specializing in the distribution of such items, general line distributors and others who provide similar services. to a lesser extent, the industrial parts group competes with manufacturers that sell directly to the customer. the industrial parts group competes primarily on the breadth of product offerings, service and price. further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in item 1a. risk factors we face substantial competition in the industries in which we do business. office products group the office products group, operated through s. p. richards company ( s. p. richards or spr ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, is headquartered in atlanta, georgia. s. p. richards is engaged in the wholesale distribution of a broad line of office and other business related products through a diverse customer base of resellers. these products are used in homes, businesses, schools, offices, and other institutions. office products fall into the general categories of office furniture, technology products, general office and school supplies, cleaning, janitorial and breakroom supplies, safety and security items, healthcare products and disposable food service products. the office products group is represented in canada through s. p. richards canada, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company headquartered near toronto, ontario. s. p. richards canada services office product resellers throughout canada from locations in vancouver, toronto, calgary, edmonton and winnipeg. effective january 2, 2015, s. p. richards acquired jal associates inc. ( jal ). jal is a regional wholesaler of office furniture with estimated annual revenues of $12 million. this business was consolidated into spr operations in baltimore, maryland; cranbury, new jersey; and richmond, virginia during 2015. effective may 1, 2015, s. p. richards acquired the commercial products business of dinesol plastics, located in niles, ohio. this acquisition further expands spr food service and janitorial product offering and is expected to generate annual revenues of approximately $3 million. effective october 1, 2015, s. p. richards acquired malt industries ( malt ), a leading wholesale distributor of protective apparel located in purvis, mississippi. malt is expected to generate annual revenues of approximately $20 million. distribution system . the office products group distributes more than 62,000 items to over 6,300 resellers and distributors throughout the united states and canada from a network of 45 distribution centers. this group network of strategically located distribution centers provides overnight delivery of the company comprehensive product offering. approximately 41% of the company 2015 total office products purchases were made from 10 major suppliers. the office products group sells to a wide variety of resellers. these resellers include independently owned office product dealers, national office product superstores and mass merchants, large contract stationers, mail order companies, internet resellers, college bookstores, military base stores, office furniture dealers, value-added technology resellers, business machine dealers, janitorial and sanitation supply distributors, safety product resellers and food service distributors. resellers are offered comprehensive marketing programs, which include print and electronic catalogs and flyers, digital content and email campaigns for reseller websites, and education and training resources. in addition, world class market analytics programs are made available to qualified resellers. 7 table of contents products . the office products group distributes technology products and consumer electronics including storage media, printer supplies, ipad, iphone and computer accessories, calculators, shredders, laminators, copiers, printers, fitness bracelets and digital cameras; office furniture including desks, credenzas, chairs, chair mats, office suites, panel systems, file, mobile and storage cabinets and computer workstations; general office supplies including desk accessories, business forms, accounting supplies, binders, filing supplies, report covers, writing instruments, envelopes, note pads, copy paper, mailroom and shipping supplies, drafting and audiovisual supplies; school and educational products including bulletin boards, teaching aids and art supplies; healthcare products including first aid supplies, gloves, exam room supplies and furnishings, cleaners and waste containers; janitorial and cleaning supplies; safety supplies; disposable food service products; and breakroom supplies including napkins, utensils, snacks and beverages. s. p. richards has return privileges with most of its suppliers, which have protected the company from inventory obsolescence. while the company inventory includes products from nearly 700 of the industry leading manufacturers worldwide, s. p. richards also markets products under its nine proprietary brands. these brands include: sparco , an economical line of office supply basics; compucessory &reg; , a line of computer accessories; lorell &reg; , a line of office furniture; naturesaver &reg; , an offering of recycled products; elite image &reg; , a line of new and remanufactured toner cartridges, premium papers and labels; integra , a line of writing instruments; genuine joe &reg; , a line of cleaning and breakroom products; business source &reg; , a line of basic office supplies available only to independent resellers; and lighthouse, a brand of janitorial and cleaning products offered through the gcn business. the company impact and malt businesses also offer an additional series of proprietary brands including proguard &reg; and promax &reg; that are product based and solution-specific oriented. through the company furnitureadvantage program, s. p. richards provides resellers with an additional 16,000 furniture items made available to consumers in 7 to 10 business days. segment data . in the year ended december 31, 2015, sales from the company office products group approximated 13% of the company net sales, as compared to 11% in 2014 and 12% in 2013. for additional segment information, see note 10 of notes to consolidated financial statements beginning on page f-1. competition . the office products distribution business is highly competitive. in the distribution of its product offering to resellers, s. p. richards competes with many other wholesale distributors, as well as with certain manufacturers of office products. s. p. richards competes primarily on product offerings, service, marketing programs, brand recognition and price. further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in item 1a. risk factors we face substantial competition in the industries in which we do business. electrical/electronic materials group the electrical/electronic materials group, operated as eis, inc. ( eis ), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, is headquartered in atlanta, georgia. eis distributes materials to more than 20,000 electrical and electronic manufacturers, as well as to industrial assembly and specialty wire and cable markets in north america. with 49 branch locations in the united states, puerto rico, the dominican republic, mexico and canada, eis distributes over 100,000 items including wire, cable and connectivity solutions, insulating and conductive materials, assembly tools and test equipment. eis also has seven light manufacturing facilities that provide custom fabricated parts and specialty coated materials. effective april 1, 2015, eis acquired connect air international, inc. ( connect air ) headquartered in seattle, washington. connect air is a leading north american specialty distributor of low-voltage wire and cable used in building applications, primarily hvac (heating, ventilations and air-conditioning), security and fire alarm systems. connect air has six sales offices and warehouses across the united states and is expected to generate annual revenues of approximately $30 million. distribution system . the electrical/electronic materials group provides distribution services to oem s, motor repair shops, specialty wire and cable users in market segments such as telecom, marine, security and industrial, as well as a broad variety of industrial assembly markets. eis actively utilizes its e-commerce internet site to present its products to customers while allowing these on-line visitors to conveniently purchase from a large product assortment. 8 table of contents electrical and electronic, industrial assembly, and wire and cable products are distributed from warehouse locations in major user markets throughout the united states, as well as in mexico, canada, puerto rico, and the dominican republic. eis has return privileges with some of its suppliers, which have protected the company from inventory obsolescence. products . the electrical/electronic materials group distributes a wide variety of products to customers from over 400 suppliers. these products include custom fabricated flexible materials that are used as components within a customer manufactured finished product in a variety of market segments. among the products distributed and fabricated are such items as magnet wire, conductive materials, electrical wire and cable, insulating and shielding materials, assembly tools, test equipment, adhesives and chemicals, pressure sensitive tapes, solder, anti-static products, thermal management products and coated films. to meet the prompt delivery demands of its customers, this group maintains large inventories. the majority of sales are on open account. approximately 55% of 2015 total electrical/electronic materials group purchases were made from 10 major suppliers. integrated supply . the electrical/electronic materials group integrated supply programs are a part of the marketing strategy, as a greater number of customers especially national accounts are given the opportunity to participate in this low-cost, high-service capability. eis has developed aims (advanced inventory management solutions system), a totally integrated, highly automated solution for inventory management. eis integrated supply offering also includes aims easi, an electronic vending dispenser used to eliminate costly tool cribs, or in-house stores, at customer warehouse facilities. segment data . in the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, sales from the company electrical/electronic materials group approximated 5% of the company net sales, as compared to 4% in 2013. for additional segment information, see note 10 of notes to consolidated financial statements beginning on page f-1. competition . the electrical and electronics distribution business is highly competitive. the electrical/electronic materials group competes with other distributors specializing in the distribution of electrical and electronic products, general line distributors and, to a lesser extent, manufacturers that sell directly to customers. eis competes primarily on factors of price, product offerings, service and engineered solutions. further information regarding competition in the industry is set forth in item 1a. risk factors we face substantial competition in the industries in which we do business. item 1a. risk factors. forward-looking statements some statements in this report, as well as in other materials we file with the sec or otherwise release to the public and in materials that we make available on our website, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to the safe harbor provisions of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. senior officers may also make verbal statements to analysts, investors, the media and others that are forward-looking. forward-looking statements may relate, for example, to future operations, prospects, strategies, financial condition, economic performance (including growth and earnings), industry conditions and demand for our products and services. the company cautions that its forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and while we believe that our expectations for the future are reasonable in view of currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. actual results or events may differ materially from those indicated in our forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors. such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. forward-looking statements are only as of the date they are made, and the company undertakes no duty to update its forward-looking statements except as required by law. you are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our subsequent forms 10-q, 8-k and other reports to the sec. set forth below are the material risks and uncertainties that, if they were to occur, could materially and adversely affect our business or could cause our actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements in this report and in the other public statements we make. please be aware that these risks may change over time and other risks may prove to be important in the future. new risks may emerge 9 table of contents at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our securities. we may not be able to successfully implement our business initiatives in each of our four business segments to grow our sales and earnings, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we have implemented numerous initiatives in each of our four business segments to grow sales and earnings, including the introduction of new and expanded product lines, strategic acquisitions, geographic expansion (including through acquisitions), sales to new markets, enhanced customer marketing programs and a variety of gross margin and cost savings initiatives. if we are unable to implement these initiatives efficiently and effectively, or if these initiatives are unsuccessful, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. successful implementation of these initiatives also depends on factors specific to the automotive parts industry and the other industries in which we operate and numerous other factors that may be beyond our control. in addition to the other risk factors contained in this item 1a. risk factors , adverse changes in the following factors could undermine our business initiatives and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows: the competitive environment in our end markets may force us to reduce prices below our desired pricing level or to increase promotional spending; our ability to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and to meet customers needs for our products in a timely manner; our ability to successfully enter new markets, including by successfully identifying and acquiring suitable acquisition targets in these new markets; our ability to effectively manage our costs; our ability to continue to grow through acquisitions and successfully integrate acquired businesses in our existing operations; our ability to identify and successfully implement appropriate technological improvements; and the economy in general. our business will be adversely affected if demand for our products slows. our business depends on customer demand for the products that we distribute. demand for these products depends on many factors. with respect to our automotive group, the primary factors are: the number of miles vehicles are driven annually, as higher vehicle mileage increases the need for maintenance and repair; the number of vehicles in the automotive fleet, a function of new vehicle sales and vehicle scrappage rates, as a steady or growing total vehicle population supports the continued demand for maintenance and repair; the quality of the vehicles manufactured by the original vehicle manufacturers and the length of the warranty or maintenance offered on new vehicles; the number of vehicles in current service that are six years old and older, as these vehicles are typically no longer under the original vehicle manufacturers warranty and will need more maintenance and repair than newer vehicles; gas prices, as increases in gas prices may deter consumers from using their vehicles; 10 table of contents changes in travel patterns, which may cause consumers to rely more on other transportation; restrictions on access to diagnostic tools and repair information imposed by the original vehicle manufacturers or by governmental regulation, as consumers may be forced to have all diagnostic work, repairs and maintenance performed by the vehicle manufacturers dealer networks; and the economy generally, which in declining conditions may cause consumers to defer vehicle maintenance and repair and defer discretionary spending. with respect to our industrial parts group, the primary factors are: the level of industrial production and manufacturing capacity utilization, as these indices reflect the need for industrial replacement parts; changes in manufacturing reflected in the level of the institute for supply management purchasing managers index, as an index reading of 50 or more implies an expanding manufacturing economy, while a reading below 50 implies a contracting manufacturing economy; the consolidation of certain of our manufacturing customers and the trend of manufacturing operations being moved overseas, which subsequently reduces demand for our products; and the economy in general, which in declining conditions may cause reduced demand for industrial output. with respect to our office products group, the primary factors are: the increasing digitization of the workplace, as this negatively impacts the need for certain office products; the level of unemployment, especially as it relates to white collar and service jobs, as high unemployment reduces the need for office products; the level of office vacancy rates, as high vacancy rates reduces the need for office products; and the economy in general, which in declining conditions may cause reduced demand for office products consumption. with respect to our electrical/electronic materials group, the primary factors are: changes in manufacturing reflected in the level of the institute for supply management purchasing managers index, as an index reading of 50 or more implies an expanding manufacturing economy, while a reading below 50 implies a contracting manufacturing economy; and the economy in general, which in declining conditions may cause reduced demand for industrial output. uncertainty and/or deterioration in general macro-economic conditions, including unemployment, inflation or deflation, changes in energy costs, uncertain credit markets, or other economic conditions, could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our business and operating results have been and may in the future be adversely affected by uncertain global economic conditions, including domestic outputs, employment rates, inflation or deflation, instability in credit markets, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, interest rates, volatile exchange rates, and other challenges that could affect the global economy. both our commercial and retail customers may experience deterioration of their financial resources, which could result in existing or potential customers delaying or canceling plans to purchase our products. our vendors could experience similar conditions, which could impact their ability to fulfill their obligations to us. future weakness in the global economy could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in future periods. we face substantial competition in the industries in which we do business. the sale of automotive and industrial parts, office products and electrical materials is highly competitive and impacted by many factors, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, changing customer preferences, store location, and pricing pressures. because we seek to offer competitive prices, if our 11 table of contents competitors reduce their prices, we may be forced to reduce our prices, which could result in a material decline in our revenues and earnings. increased competition among distributors of automotive and industrial parts, office products and electronic materials, including internet-related initiatives, could cause a material adverse effect on our results of operations. the company anticipates no decline in competition in any of its four business segments in the foreseeable future. in particular, the market for replacement automotive parts is highly competitive and subjects us to a wide variety of competitors. we compete primarily with national and regional auto parts chains, independently owned regional and local automotive parts and accessories stores, automobile dealers that supply manufacturer replacement parts and accessories, mass merchandisers and wholesale clubs that sell automotive products and regional and local full service automotive repair shops, both new and established. furthermore, both the automotive aftermarket and the office supply industry continue to experience consolidation. consolidation among our competitors could further enhance their financial position, provide them with the ability to provide more competitive prices to customers for whom we compete, and allow them to achieve increased efficiencies in their consolidated operations that enable them to more effectively compete for customers. if we are unable to continue to develop successful competitive strategies or if our competitors develop more effective strategies, we could lose customers and our sales and profits may decline. we depend on our relationships with our vendors, and a disruption of our vendor relationships or a disruption in our vendors operations could harm our business. as a distributor of automotive parts, industrial parts, office products and electrical/electronic materials, our business depends on developing and maintaining close and productive relationships with our vendors. we depend on our vendors to sell us quality products at favorable prices. many factors outside our control, including, without limitation, raw material shortages, inadequate manufacturing capacity, labor disputes, transportation disruptions or weather conditions, could adversely affect our vendors ability to deliver to us quality merchandise at favorable prices in a timely manner. furthermore, financial or operational difficulties with a particular vendor could cause that vendor to increase the cost of the products or decrease the quality of the products we purchase from it. vendor consolidation could also limit the number of suppliers from which we may purchase products and could materially affect the prices we pay for these products. in our automotive business, the number of vendors could decrease considerably, and the prices charged to us by the remaining vendors could increase, to the extent that vehicle production slows due to a decline in consumer spending or other economic factor. in addition, we would suffer an adverse impact if our vendors limit or cancel the return privileges that currently protect us from inventory obsolescence. if we experience a security breach, if our internal information systems fail to function properly or if we are unsuccessful in implementing, integrating or upgrading our information systems, our business operations could be materially affected. we depend on information systems to process customer orders, manage inventory and accounts receivable collections, purchase products, manage accounts payable processes, ship products to customers on a timely basis, maintain cost effective operations, provide superior service to customers and accumulate financial results. despite our implementation of security measures, our it systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized physical or electronic access, power outages, computer system or network failures, cyber-attacks and other similar disruptions. maintaining and operating these measures requires continuous investments, which the company has made and will continue to make. a security breach could result in sensitive data being lost, manipulated or exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. a serious prolonged disruption of our information systems for any of the above reasons could materially impair fundamental business processes and increase expenses, decrease sales or otherwise reduce earnings. furthermore, such a breach may harm our reputation and business prospects and subject us to legal claims if there is 12 table of contents loss, disclosure or misappropriation of or access to our customers information. as threats related to cyber security breaches develop and grow, we may also find it necessary to make further investments to protect our data and infrastructure. because we are involved in litigation from time to time and are subject to numerous laws and governmental regulations, we could incur substantial judgments, fines, legal fees and other costs. we are sometimes the subject of complaints or litigation from customers, employees or other third parties for various actions. the damages sought against us in some of these litigation proceedings are substantial. although we maintain liability insurance for some litigation claims, if one or more of the claims were to greatly exceed our insurance coverage limits or if our insurance policies do not cover a claim, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, we are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and governmental regulations relating to taxes, environmental protection, product quality standards, building and zoning requirements, as well as employment law matters. if we fail to comply with existing or future laws or regulations, we may be subject to governmental or judicial fines or sanctions, while incurring substantial legal fees and costs. in addition, our capital expenses could increase due to remediation measures that may be required if we are found to be noncompliant with any existing or future laws or regulations. we recognize the growing demand for business-to-business and business-to-customer e-commerce options, and we could lose business if we fail to provide the e-commerce options our customers wish to use. our success in e-commerce depends on our ability to accurately identify the products to make available through e-commerce platforms across our business segments, and to establish and maintain such platforms to provide the highest level of data security to our customers on and through the platforms our customers wish to use (including mobile) with rapidly changing technology in a highly competitive environment. we are dependent on key personnel and the loss of one or more of those key personnel could harm our business. our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. we believe our management team depth and breadth of experience in our industry is integral to executing our business plan. we also will need to continue to attract, motivate and retain other key personnel. the loss of services of members of our senior management team or other key employees, the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed or failure to plan for the succession of senior management and key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. although the company does not face material risks related to interest rates and commodity prices, the company is exposed to changes in foreign currency rates with respect to foreign currency denominated operating revenues and expenses. foreign currency the company has translation gains or losses that result from translation of the results of operations of an operating unit foreign functional currency into u.s. dollars for consolidated financial statement purposes. the company principal foreign currency exchange exposure is the canadian dollar, the functional currency of our canadian operations, the australian dollar, the functional currency of our australasian operations and, to a lesser extent, the mexican peso, the functional currency of our mexican operations. foreign currency exchange exposure, particularly in regard to the canadian and australian dollar and, to a lesser extent, the mexican peso, negatively impacted our results for the year ended december 31, 2015. during 2015 and 2014, it was estimated that a 10% shift in exchange rates between those foreign functional currencies and the u.s. dollar would have impacted translated net sales by approximately $252 million and $258 million, respectively. a 15% shift in exchange rates between those functional currencies and the u.s. dollar would have impacted translated net sales by approximately $378 million in 2015 and $388 million in 2014. a 20% shift in exchange rates between those functional currencies and the u.s. dollar would have impacted translated net sales by approximately $504 million in 2015 and $517 million in 2014.