risk factors under the caption macroeconomic and industry risks. backlog our backlog represents the estimated remaining value of work to be performed under firm contracts. backlog is equal to our remaining performance obligations under the contracts that meet the guidance on revenue from contracts with customers as discussed in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. backlog was $25,612 million and $24,850 million at december 31, 2019 and 2018 . we expect to recognize approximately 57% of our remaining performance obligations as revenue in 2020 , and the remaining balance thereafter. raw materials the principal raw materials used in our operations are readily available. although we occasionally experience disruption in raw materials supply, we experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials or commodities in 2019 . we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials. prices of certain key raw materials, including copper, fluorspar, tungsten salts, ethylene, aluminum, and molybdenum in performance materials and technologies and nickel, steel, titanium and other metals in aerospace, are expected to fluctuate. we offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. we do not presently anticipate that a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impacts during 2020 . patents, trademarks, licenses and distribution rights our segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. in our judgment, our intellectual property rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. we believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any individual patent, trademark or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product to be of material importance in relation to our total business. 3 environment we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regarding protection of human health and the environment. our policies, practices and procedures are designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. we engage in the handling, manufacturing, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. our policies, practices and procedures are designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances meet or exceed environmental and safety laws and regulations. it is possible that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances. among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the u.s. environmental protection agency's national priority list. while there is a possibility that a responsible party might be unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we do not anticipate having to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole. we do not believe that federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, or any existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on the company's business. we will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area. employees we have approximately 113,000 employees at december 31, 2019 , of whom approximately 44,000 are located in the united states. 4 information about our executive officers the executive officers of honeywell, listed as follows, are elected annually by the board of directors. there are no family relationships among them. name, age, date first elected an executive officer business experience darius adamczyk, 54 2017 (a) chairman of the board and chief executive officer since april 2018. president and chief executive officer from april 2017 to april 2018. chief operating officer from april 2016 to march 2017. president and chief executive officer performance materials and technologies from april 2014 to april 2016. president of honeywell process solutions from april 2012 to april 2014. que thanh dallara, 46 2018 president and chief executive officer connected enterprise since october 2018. vice president and chief commercial officer from january 2017 to october 2018. from 2007 to 2016, ms. dallara served in multiple leadership positions at te connectivity ltd., most recently as senior vice president, corporate strategy and analytics. rajeev gautam, 67 2016 president and chief executive officer performance materials and technologies since april 2016. president of honeywell uop from january 2009 to april 2016. mark r. james, 58 2007 senior vice president human resources, security and communications since november 2007. vimal kapur, 54 2018 president and chief executive officer honeywell building technologies since may 2018. president of honeywell process solutions from 2014 to may 2018. gregory p. lewis, 52 2018 senior vice president and chief financial officer since august 2018. vice president of enterprise information management from october 2016 to april 2018, prior to being named vice president, corporate finance in may 2018. chief financial officer of automation and control solutions from april 2013 to september 2016. anne t. madden, 55 2017 senior vice president and general counsel since october 2017. corporate secretary from february 2018 to september 2019. vice president of corporate development and global head of m&amp;a from january 2002 to october 2017. michael r. madsen, 56 2019 president and chief executive officer aerospace since october 2019. vice president, integrated supply chain of aerospace from may 2015 to october 2019. president, aerospace defense and space from october 2010 to may 2015 john f. waldron, 44 2016 president and chief executive officer, safety and productivity solutions since july 2016. president of sensing and productivity solutions from july 2015 to july 2016. president of scanning and mobility from april 2012 to july 2015. (a) also a director. item 1a. risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements we describe many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in other parts of this report (including this item 1a). such discussions contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. they are based on management's assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. we do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near- and long-term. these forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this form 10-k, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. these factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent reports on forms 10-q and 8-k. 5 risk factors our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to the principal risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. macroeconomic and industry risks each of our businesses is subject to unique industry and economic conditions that may adversely affect the markets and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. aerospace our aerospace business is impacted by customer buying patterns of aftermarket parts, supplier stability, factory transitions and global supply chain capacity constraints that may lead to shortages of crucial components. operating results may be adversely affected by downturns in the global demand for air travel which impacts new aircraft production or the delay or cancellation of new aircraft orders, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft, the retirement of aircraft and global flying hours, which impact air transport, regional, business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates. operating results may be adversely affected by the decrease in air travel demand due to regional restrictions or suspension of service for public health, safety, or environmental events. operating results could also be impacted by changes in overall trends related to end market demand for the product portfolio, as well as, new entrants and non-traditional players entering the market. operating results in our defense and space business unit may be affected by the mix of u.s. and foreign government appropriations for defense and space programs and by compliance risks. results may also be impacted by the potential introduction of counterfeit parts into our global supply chain. honeywell building technologies operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the level of global commercial construction activity (including retrofits and upgrades), lower capital spending and operating expenditures on building projects, less industrial plant expansion, changes in the competitive landscape including new market entrants and new technologies, and fluctuations in inventory levels in distribution channels. performance materials and technologies operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our customers' availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, raw material demand and supply volatility, product commoditization, continued illegal imports of hydrofluorocarbons into europe and our ability to maximize our facilities' production capacity and minimize downtime. in particular, the volatility in oil and natural gas prices have and will continue to impact our customers' operating levels and capital spending and thus demand for our products and services. safety and productivity solutions operating results may be adversely impacted by reduced investments in process automation, safety monitoring, and plant capacity utilization initiatives, fluctuations in retail markets, lower customer demand due to the failure to anticipate and respond to overall trends related to end market demand, changes in the competitive landscape including new market entrants and technology that may lead to product commoditization, and adverse industry economic conditions, all of which could result in lower market share, reduced selling prices and lower margins. an increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-u.s. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory, foreign exchange and other risks of international operations. our international operations, including u.s. exports, represent more than half of the company's sales. risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, antitrust regulations, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as sanctions and embargoes), differing levels of protection of intellectual property, acts of industrial espionage, violations by our employees of anti-corruption laws (despite our efforts to mitigate these risks), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, acts of terrorism, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. instability and uncertainties arising from the global geopolitical environment, and the evolving international and domestic political, regulatory and economic landscape, the potential for changes in global trade policies including sanctions and trade barriers, trends such as populism, economic nationalism and negative sentiment toward multinational companies, and the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. 6 while there is uncertainty regarding the final outcome and full terms of the united kingdom's future relationship with the european union, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the united kingdom and other countries, including the united states, increased tariffs on u.k. imports and exports, and increased regulatory complexities. the company has developed plans to mitigate the potential impact of these possible restrictions, but the implications of these uncertainties could affect the company's business, financial position and results of operations. existing free trade laws and regulations provide certain beneficial duties and tariffs for qualifying imports and exports. changes in laws or policies governing the terms of foreign trade, and in particular increased trade restrictions, tariffs or taxes on imports from countries where we manufacture products or from where we import products or raw materials, either directly or through our suppliers, could have an impact on our competitive position and financial results. the united states has commenced certain trade actions, including imposing tariffs on certain goods imported from china and other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by china and other countries. additional tariffs imposed by the united states on a broader range of imports, or further retaliatory trade measures taken by china or other countries in response, could increase the cost of our products. operating outside of the united states also exposes us to foreign exchange risk, which we monitor and seek to reduce through hedging activities. however, foreign exchange hedging activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us or be successful in eliminating such volatility. finally, we generate significant amounts of cash outside of the united states that is invested with financial and non-financial counterparties. while we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and commitments, a material disruption to the counterparties with whom we transact business could expose honeywell to financial loss. operating outside the united states also exposes us to additional intellectual property risk. the laws and enforcement practices of certain jurisdictions in which we operate may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the u.s. and may impose joint venture, technology transfer, local service or other foreign investment requirements and restrictions that potentially compromise control over our technology and proprietary information. failure of foreign jurisdictions to protect our intellectual property rights, an inability to effectively enforce such rights in foreign jurisdictions, or the imposition of foreign jurisdiction investment or sourcing restrictions or requirements could result in loss of valuable proprietary information and could impact our competitive position and financial results. risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and require cash pension contributions in future periods. changes in discount rates and actual asset returns different than our anticipated asset returns can result in significant non-cash actuarial gains or losses which we record in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and, if applicable, in any quarter in which an interim re-measurement is triggered. with regard to cash pension contributions, funding requirements for our pension plans are largely dependent upon interest rates, actual investment returns on pension assets and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. we may be required to transition from the use of the libor interest rate index in the future. we have certain contracts indexed to libor to calculate the interest rate. the continued availability of the libor index is not guaranteed after 2021. we cannot predict whether and to what extent banks will continue to provide libor submissions to the administrator of libor or whether any additional reforms to libor may be enacted. the language in certain of our libor-based contracts identify various events that trigger when a successor rate to the designated rate would be selected. if a trigger is satisfied, such contracts may give the calculation agent discretion over the substitute index or indices for the calculation of interest rates to be selected. the implementation of a substitute index or indices for the calculation of interest rates under our contracts may result in our incurring significant expenses in effecting the transition and may result in disputes or litigation over the appropriateness or comparability to libor of the substitute index or indices, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 7 operational risks raw material price fluctuations, the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability to meet commitments to customers and cause us to incur significant liabilities. the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in performance materials and technologies (copper, fluorspar, tungsten salts, ethylene, aluminum, and molybdenum) and in aerospace (nickel, steel, titanium and other metals). our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. many major components, product equipment items and raw materials, particularly in aerospace, are procured or subcontracted on a single or sole-source basis. although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process and we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be constrained by our suppliers' inability to scale production and adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times of volatile demand. our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. we may be unable to successfully execute or effectively integrate acquisitions, and divestitures may not occur as planned. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all. in addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, including risk of impairment; (ii) the failure to integrate multiple acquired businesses into honeywell simultaneously and on schedule and/or to achieve expected synergies; (iii) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions; and (iv) the discovery of unanticipated liabilities, labor relations difficulties, cybersecurity concerns, compliance issues or other problems in acquired businesses for which we lack contractual protections, insurance or indemnities, or with regard to divested businesses, claims by purchasers to whom we have provided contractual indemnification. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance in increasingly competitive markets with acceptable margins. our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify and evolve with emerging technological and broader industry trends in our target end-markets; (ii) develop and maintain competitive products; (iii) defend our market share against an ever-expanding number of competitors including many new and non-traditional competitors; (iv) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products; (v) develop, manufacture and bring compelling new products to market quickly and cost-effectively; (vi) monitor disruptive technologies and business models; (vii) achieve sufficient return on investment for new products introduced based on capital expenditures and research and development spending; (viii) respond to changes in overall trends related to end-market demand; and (ix) attract, develop and retain individuals with the requisite technical expertise and understanding of customers' needs to develop new technologies and introduce new products. competitors may also develop after-market services and parts for our products which attract customers and adversely affect our return on investment for new products. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors or the failure to address any of the above factors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. 8 failure to increase productivity through sustainable operational improvements, as well as an inability to successfully execute repositioning projects or to effectively manage our workforce, may reduce our profitability or adversely impact our businesses. our profitability and margin growth are dependent upon our ability to drive sustainable improvements. in addition, we seek productivity and cost savings benefits through repositioning actions and projects, such as consolidation of manufacturing facilities, transitions to cost-competitive regions and product line rationalizations. risks associated with these actions include delays in execution, additional unexpected costs, realization of fewer than estimated productivity improvements and adverse effects on employee morale. we may not realize the full operational or financial benefits we expect, the recognition of these benefits may be delayed and these actions may potentially disrupt our operations. in addition, organizational changes, increased attrition, failure to create and implement a succession plan for key company positions, not retaining key talent, inability to attract new employees with unique skills, labor relations difficulties, or workforce stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. as a supplier to the u.s. government, we are subject to unique risks, such as the right of the u.s. government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. u.s. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent with the terms of the applicable contract. our contracts with the u.s. government are also subject to government audits that may recommend downward price adjustments and other changes. when appropriate and prudent, we made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future. we are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. if, as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including investigation of violations of certain environmental, employment or export laws), honeywell or one of its businesses were found to have violated applicable law, then it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. we continue to incur remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances. additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. various federal, state, local and foreign governments regulate the discharge of materials into the environment, or the use of or communications respecting certain materials in our products, and can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require injunctive relief measures, including installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases, or limiting access of our products to markets, among others. in addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, the establishment of stricter toxicity standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur additional costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 9 cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology (it) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the company, its products, its customers and/or its third party service providers, including cloud providers. our customers, including the u.s. government, are increasingly requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards in our products, and we may incur additional costs to comply with such demands. while we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the company. we seek to deploy comprehensive measures to deter, prevent, detect, respond to and mitigate these threats, including identity and access controls, data protection, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring of our it networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems. despite these efforts, cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include financial loss, reputational damage, litigation with third parties, theft of intellectual property, fines levied by the federal trade commission, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs due to the increasing sophistication and proliferation of threats, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. the development of technology products and services presents security and safety risks. an increasing number of our products, services and technologies are delivered with internet of things (iot) capabilities and the accompanying interconnected device networks which include sensors, data and advanced computing capabilities. we have developed product software designs which we believe are less susceptible to cyber-attacks, but despite these efforts, if our products and services that include iot solutions do not work as intended or are compromised, the possible consequences include financial loss, reputational damage, exposure to legal claims or enforcement actions, theft of intellectual property, and diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. data privacy, data protection, and information security may require significant resources and presents certain risks. we collect, store, have access to and otherwise process certain confidential or sensitive data, including proprietary business information, personal data or other information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and/or customer-imposed controls. despite our efforts to protect such data, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, or employee errors that could potentially lead to the compromising of such data, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. in addition, we operate in an environment in which there are different and potentially conflicting data privacy laws in effect in the various u.s. states and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and we must understand and comply with each law and standard in each of these jurisdictions while ensuring the data is secure. for example, the state of california recently passed legislation granting residents certain new data privacy rights and regulating the security of iot devices, effective in january 2020; european laws require us to have an approved legal mechanism to transfer personal data out of europe; the european union general data protection regulation, which became enforceable in may 2018, superseded prior european union data protection legislation and imposes more stringent requirements in how we collect and process personal data and provides for significantly greater penalties for noncompliance; and several other countries have passed laws that require personal data relating to their citizens to be maintained on local servers and impose additional data transfer restrictions. government enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt the regular operation of our business, and violations of data privacy laws can result in fines, reputational damage and civil lawsuits, any of which may adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. 10 a material disruption of our operations, particularly at our manufacturing facilities or within our information technology infrastructure, could adversely affect our business. our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to natural disasters, including hurricanes and floods, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, equipment failures, sabotage, cyber incidents, adverse weather conditions, labor disputes, critical supply failure, inaccurate downtime forecast, political disruption, and other reasons, which can result in undesirable consequences, including financial losses and damaged relationships with customers. public health crises, like a regional or global pandemic, could disrupt our supply chain, distribution channels, production facilities, operations and customer demand, which could negatively impact our operations and adversely affect our business. we employ information technology systems and networks to support the business and rely on them to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. disruptions to our information technology infrastructure from system failures, shutdowns, power outages, telecommunication or utility failures, cybersecurity incidents, and other events, including disruptions at our cloud computing, server, systems and other third party it service providers, could interfere with our operations, interrupt production and shipments, damage customer and business partner relationships, and negatively impact our reputation. concentrations of credit and market risk may adversely affect our results of operations. we maintain long-term contract relationships with many of our customers, suppliers, and other counterparties. while we monitor the financial health of these counterparties, we are exposed to credit and market risks to the extent that customers, suppliers, and other counterparties are concentrated in similar industries and geographic regions. changes in economic conditions in these industries or geographic regions could result in the credit deterioration or insolvency of a significant counterparty, which may lead to concerns about the creditworthiness of other counterparties in the same industry or geography, impacting our ability to renew our long-term contract arrangements or collect amounts due under these arrangements. legal and regulatory risks our u.s. and non-u.s. tax liabilities are dependent, in part, upon the distribution of income among various jurisdictions in which we operate. our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings (or changes in the interpretation thereof), potential taxation of digital services, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures and various other governmental enforcement initiatives. our tax expense includes estimates of tax reserves and reflects other estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company which could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. changes in tax laws or regulations, including further regulatory developments arising from u.s. tax reform legislation as well as multi-jurisdictional changes enacted in response to the action items provided by the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd), will increase tax uncertainty and impact our provision for income taxes. 11 changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. the sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations including safety, performance and product certification regulations. within aerospace, the operating results of commercial original equipment and commercial aftermarket may be impacted by, among other things, mandates of the federal aviation administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft. our defense and space business unit may be affected by changes in government procurement regulations. within honeywell building technologies and safety and productivity solutions, the demand for and cost of providing products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. performance materials and technologies' results of operations can be impacted by environmental standards, regulations, and judicial determinations . growth in all our businesses within emerging markets may be adversely impacted by the inability to acquire and retain qualified employees where local employment law mandates may be restrictive. noncompliance with legislation and regulations can result in fines and penalties. increased public awareness and concern regarding global climate change may result in more international, regional and/or federal or other stakeholder requirements or expectations that could mandate more restrictive or expansive standards, such as stricter limits on greenhouse gas emissions or more prescriptive reporting of environmental, social, and governance metrics, than the voluntary commitments, that the company has adopted or require such changes on a more accelerated time frame. there continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. if environmental laws or regulations are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the company or its products, they could negatively impact the company's business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. we are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, antitrust, accounting, import and export, and environmental, health and safety matters. our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. the incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks information relating to market risks is included in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption financial instruments . 32risk factors.&rdquo; 6 u.s. government sales sales to the u.s. government (principally by our aerospace segment), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $3,688, $3,719 and $3,464 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, which included sales to the u.s. department of defense, as a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $3,052, $2,939 and $2,808 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. u.s. defense spending increased in 2006 and is also expected to increase in 2007. we do not expect to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2007 federal spending due principally to the varied mix of the government programs which impact us (oem production, engineering development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs). our contracts with the u.s. government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination by the government. see &ldquo;item 1a. risk factors.&rdquo; backlog our total backlog at december 31, 2006 and 2005 was $10,674 and $9,327 million, respectively. we anticipate that approximately $8,162 million of the 2006 backlog will be filled in 2007. we believe that backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer's option. competition we are subject to active competition in substantially all product and service areas. competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. competitive conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and services provided by us, and vary country by country. depending on the particular customer or market involved, our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. brand identity, service to customers and quality are generally important competitive factors for our products and services, and there is considerable price competition. other competitive factors for certain products include breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. while our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes. however, a number of our products and services are sold in competition with those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. in addition, some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of original equipment manufacturers. international operations we are engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development mainly in the united states, europe, canada, asia and latin america. u.s. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to our operations. u.s. exports comprised 11, 10 and 9 percent of our total sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. foreign manufactured products and services, mainly in europe, were 37, 35 and 35 percent of our total sales in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. approximately 19 percent of total 2006 sales of aerospace-related products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products and systems and performance of services such as aircraft repair and overhaul. exports were principally made to europe, canada, asia and latin america. foreign manufactured products and systems and performance of services comprised approximately 14 percent of total 2006 aerospace sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in canada and asia. approximately 2 percent of total 2006 sales of automation and control solutions products were exports of u.s. manufactured products. foreign manufactured products and performance of services accounted for 55 percent of total 2006 sales of automation and control solutions. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe with less significant operations in asia, canada and latin america. approximately 25 percent of total 2006 sales of specialty materials products were exports of u.s. manufactured products. exports were principally made to asia, europe, latin america and canada. 7 foreign manufactured products comprised 22 percent of total 2006 sales of specialty materials. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in asia and canada. exports of u.s. manufactured products comprised 1 percent of total 2006 sales of transportation systems products. foreign manufactured products accounted for 63 percent of total 2006 sales of transportation systems. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in asia, latin america and canada. financial information including net sales and long-lived assets related to geographic areas is included in note 24 of notes to financial statements in &ldquo;item 8. financial statements and supplementary data&rdquo;. information regarding the economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations is included in &ldquo;item 1a. risk factors.&rdquo; raw materials the principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available. we experienced no significant or unusual problems in the purchase of key raw materials and commodities in 2006. we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials, except related to phenol, a raw material used in our specialty materials segment. we purchase phenol under a supply agreement with one supplier. we have no reason to believe there is any material risk to this supply. we are highly dependent on our suppliers and subcontractors in order to meet commitments to our customers. in addition, many major components and product equipment items are procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies. we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance on third parties. while we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. the costs of certain key raw materials, including natural gas, benzene (the key component in phenol) and fluorspar in our specialty materials' business, steel and nickel in our transportation systems business, and nickel, titanium and other metals in our aerospace business, were at historically high levels in 2006 and are expected to remain at high price levels. in addition, in 2006 certain large long-term fixed supplier price agreements expired, primarily relating to components used by our aerospace business, which in the aggregate, subjected us to higher volatility in certain component costs. we will continue to attempt to offset raw material cost increases with formula price agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. we have no reason to believe a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impact during 2007. see &ldquo;item 1a. risk factors&rdquo; for further discussion. patents, trademarks, licenses and distribution rights our reportable segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. we own, or are licensed under, a large number of patents, patent applications and trademarks acquired over a period of many years, which relate to many of our products or improvements to those products and which are of importance to our business. from time to time, new patents and trademarks are obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and rights are acquired from others. we also have distribution rights of varying terms for a number of products and services produced by other companies. in our judgment, those rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. we believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any patent, trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product, to be of material importance in relation to our total business. see &ldquo;item 1a. risk factors&rdquo; for further discussion. we have registered trademarks for a number of our products and services, including honeywell, uop, prestone, fram, autolite, bendix, jurid, holts, garrett, ademco, fire-lite, notifier, system sensor, mk, novar, genetron, enovate, spectra, aclar, simoniz and redex. 8 research and development our research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of new products, technologies and processes and the development of new uses for existing products. the company has research and development activities in the u.s., europe, india and china. research and development (r&amp;d) expense totaled $1,411, $1,072 and $917 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the increase in r&amp;d expense in 2006 compared to 2005 of 32 percent was primarily due to the impact of additional r&amp;d expense for uop in specialty materials as well as product, design and development costs in aerospace and automation and control solutions. the increase in research and development expense in 2005 compared with 2004 of 17 percent resulted primarily from design and developments costs associated with new aircraft platforms in aerospace and new product development costs in automation and control solutions. customer-sponsored (principally the u.s. government) r&amp;d activities amounted to an additional $777, $694 and $593 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. environment we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. it is our policy to comply with these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. we are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous or toxic by one or more regulatory agencies. we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. it is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances. among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the u.s. environmental protection agency's superfund priority list. although, under some court interpretations of these laws, there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we have not had to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole. further information, including the current status of significant environmental matters and the financial impact incurred for remediation of such environmental matters, if any, is included in &ldquo;item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations,&rdquo; in note 21 of notes to financial statements in &ldquo;item 8. financial statements and supplementary data,&rdquo; and in &ldquo;item 1a. risk factors.&rdquo; employees we have approximately 118,000 employees at december 31, 2006, of which approximately 56,000 were located in the united states. 9 item 1a. risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements we have described many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in &ldquo;item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&rdquo;, including the discussion of economic and other factors and areas of focus for 2007 for the company and/or each of our segments. these sections and other parts of this report (including this item 1a) contain &ldquo;forward-looking statements&rdquo; within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. they are based on management's assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. we do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. these forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this form 10-k, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. risk factors our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the market and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. the operating results of our segments are impacted by general industry and economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment patterns, demand for our products and services and the level of our manufacturing costs. the operating results of our aerospace segment, which generated 35 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2006, are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, including global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production and/or the retirement of older aircraft, global flying hours, and business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates, as well as the level and mix of u.s. government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further discussed in other risk factors below). the challenging operating environment faced by the commercial airline industry is expected to continue and may be influenced by a wide variety of factors including aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns, and changes in regulations. future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our aerospace aftermarket sales and margins. the operating results of our automation and control solutions (acs) segment, which generated 35 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2006, are impacted by the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending on building and process automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, and material price inflation. specialty materials' operating results, which generated 15 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2006, are impacted by global gross domestic product and capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining and petrochemical plants. transportation systems' operating results, which generated 15 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2006, are impacted by global production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and consumer spending for automotive aftermarket and car care products. 10 raw material price fluctuations and the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements can increase the cost of our products and services and impact our ability to meet commitments to customers. the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our specialty materials (fluorspar, benzene (the key component in phenol) and natural gas), transportation systems (nickel and steel) and aerospace (nickel, titanium and other metals) segments. our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. our manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of materials by outside suppliers and their assembly of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely manner and in full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards, and applicable laws and regulations. we also depend in limited instances on sole source suppliers. our suppliers may fail to perform according to specifications as and when required and we may be unable to identify alternate suppliers or to otherwise mitigate the consequences of their non-performance. the supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by external events such as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, labor disputes or governmental actions. our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors, and (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively. our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. in addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. we own or are licensed under a large number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights. our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. in some non-u.s. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. an increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-u.s. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations. our international operations, including u.s. exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results and our strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as china, india and the middle east. in 2006, 48 percent of our total sales 11 (including products manufactured in the u.s. and in international locations) were outside of the u.s. including 28 percent in europe and 10 percent in asia. risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import and trade restrictions (including embargoes), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, government instability and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff in these regions. the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. as we continue to grow our businesses internationally, our operating results could be effected by the relative strength of the european and asian economies and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. we do have a policy to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, but such activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us and may not be successful in eliminating such volatility. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets. at december 31, 2006, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) totaled approximately $14.5 billion. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess our long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareowners' equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our access to the public debt and equity markets. a change in the level of u.s. government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact sales of aerospace's defense and space-related product and services. sales of our defense and space-related products and services are largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the u.s. defense budget. sales as a prime contractor and subcontractor to the u. s. department of defense comprised approximately 27 and 10 percent of aerospace and total sales, respectively, for the year ended december 31, 2006. although u.s. defense spending increased in 2006 and is expected to increase again in 2007, we cannot predict the extent to which funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2008 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by congress, or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. we also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. a shift in defense spending to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations. as a supplier of military and other equipment to the u. s. government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the u.s. government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. in addition to normal business risks, companies like honeywell that supply military and other equipment to the u.s. government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislations and regulations and other policies that reflect military and political developments, significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design improvements, intense competition for u.s. government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and other factors characteristic of the 12 industry. changes are customary over the life of u.s. government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of contract prices. our contracts with the u.s. government are subject to audits. like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward price adjustments to certain contracts to comply with various government regulations. we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in appropriate cases and may do so in the future. u.s. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform under the applicable contract. in the case of a termination for convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. if a contract is terminated by the government for our failure to perform we could be liable for additional costs incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from any other source and any other damages suffered by the government. we are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. if honeywell or one of its businesses were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws), it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. the u.s. government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious misconduct. debarment generally does not exceed three years. changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. the sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations. safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the federal aviation administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact aerospace sales, research and development expenditures, operating costs and profitability. the demand for and cost of providing automation and control solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care and energy efficiency standards and regulations. specialty materials' results of operations can be affected by environmental (e.g. government regulation of fluorocarbons), safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions and energy efficiency standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in our transportation systems segment. completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned, and divestitures may not occur as planned. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. in addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve synergies within the plan and timeframe, and/or (iv) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the expected time frame. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. we are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, and environmental, health and safety matters. resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings. moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the 13 impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to damage awards or settlements, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. it also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all our operational risks and liabilities. the incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. we have incurred remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing toxic substances. additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we incur, and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. our expenses include significant costs related to employee health and retiree health and income benefits. with approximately 118,000 employees, including 56,000 in the u.s, our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and income benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. continued increasing health-care costs, and changes in other assumptions used to calculate retiree health and income benefit expenses, may affect our future profitability. additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. in 2006, our tax expense represented 25.7 percent of our income before tax, and includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company that could effect the valuation of our deferred tax assets. our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information relating to market risk is included in &ldquo;item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&rdquo; under the caption &ldquo;financial instruments&rdquo;. 44risk factors. u.s. government sales sales to the u.s. government (principally by our aerospace segment), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $4,011, $3,688 and $3,719 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, which included sales to the u.s. department of defense, as a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $3,192, $3,052 and $2,939 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. u.s. defense spending increased in 2007 and is also expected to increase in 2008. we do not expect to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2008 federal spending due principally to the varied mix of the government programs which impact us (oem production, engineering development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs). our contracts with the u.s. government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination by the government. see item 1a. risk factors. backlog our total backlog at december 31, 2007 and 2006 was $12,303 and $10,674 million, respectively. we anticipate that approximately $9,155 million of the 2007 backlog will be filled in 2008. we believe that backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer option. competition we are subject to active competition in substantially all product and service areas. competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. competitive conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and services provided by us, and vary by country. depending on the particular customer or market involved, our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. brand identity, service to customers and quality are generally important competitive factors for our products and services, and there is considerable price competition. other competitive factors for certain products include breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. while our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes. however, a number of our products and services are sold in competition with those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. in addition, some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of original equipment manufacturers. international operations we are engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development mainly in the united states, europe, canada, asia and latin america. u.s. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to our operations. u.s. exports comprised 10, 11 and 10 percent of our total sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. foreign manufactured products and services, mainly in europe, were 39, 37 and 35 percent of our total sales in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. approximately 18 percent of total 2007 sales of aerospace-related products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products and systems and performance of services such as aircraft repair and overhaul. exports were principally made to europe, canada, asia and latin america. foreign manufactured products and systems and performance of services comprised approximately 14 7 percent of total 2007 aerospace sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in canada and asia. approximately 2 percent of total 2007 sales of automation and control solutions products were exports of u.s. manufactured products. foreign manufactured products and performance of services accounted for 58 percent of total 2007 automation and control solutions sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe with less significant operations in asia, canada and latin america. approximately 18 percent of total 2007 sales of specialty materials products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products. exports were principally made to asia and latin america. foreign manufactured products and performance of services comprised 23 percent of total 2007 specialty materials sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in asia and canada. exports of u.s. manufactured products comprised 1 percent of total 2007 sales of transportation systems products. foreign manufactured products accounted for 70 percent of total 2007 sales of transportation systems. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in asia, latin america and canada. financial information including net sales and long-lived assets related to geographic areas is included in note 24 of notes to financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . information regarding the economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations is included in item 1a. risk factors. raw materials the principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available. we experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials and commodities in 2007. we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials, except related to phenol, a raw material used in our specialty materials segment. we purchase phenol under a supply agreement with one supplier. we have no reason to believe there is any material risk to this supply. we are highly dependent on our suppliers and subcontractors in order to meet commitments to our customers. in addition, many major components and product equipment items are procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies. we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance on third parties. while we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. the costs of certain key raw materials, including natural gas, benzene (the key component in phenol), ethylene and sulfur in our specialty materials business, steel, nickel, other metals and ethylene glycol in our transportation systems business, and nickel, titanium and other metals in our aerospace business, have been and are expected to remain at high price levels. in addition, in 2007 certain large long-term fixed supplier price agreements expired, primarily relating to components used by our aerospace business, which in the aggregate, subjected us to higher volatility in certain component costs. we will continue to attempt to offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term price agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. we have no reason to believe a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impact during 2008. see item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. patents, trademarks, licenses and distribution rights our segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. we own, or are licensed under, a large number of patents, patent applications and trademarks acquired over a period of many years, which relate to many of our products or improvements to those products and which are of importance to our business. from time to time, new patents and trademarks are obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and rights are acquired from others. we also have distribution rights of varying terms for a number of products and services produced by other companies. in our judgment, those rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. we believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses 8 are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any patent, trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product, to be of material importance in relation to our total business. see item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. we have registered trademarks for a number of our products and services, including honeywell, uop, prestone, fram, autolite, bendix, jurid, holts, garrett, ademco, fire-lite, notifier, system sensor, mk, novar, genetron, enovate, spectra, aclar, simoniz and redex. research and development our research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of new products, technologies and processes and the development of new uses for existing products. the company has research and development activities in the u.s., europe, india and china. research and development (r&amp;d) expense totaled $1,459, $1,411 and $1,072 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the increase in r&amp;d expense in 2007 compared to 2006 of 3 percent was mainly due to additional product, design and development costs in automation and control solutions and increased expenditures on the development of turbocharging systems for new platforms. the increase in r&amp;d expense in 2006 compared to 2005 of 32 percent was primarily due to the impact of additional r&amp;d expense for uop in specialty materials as well as product, design and development costs in aerospace and automation and control solutions. customer-sponsored (principally the u.s. government) r&amp;d activities amounted to an additional $881, $777 and $694 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. environment we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. it is our policy to comply with these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. we are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous or toxic by one or more regulatory agencies. we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. it is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances. among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the u.s. environmental protection agency superfund priority list. although, under some court interpretations of these laws, there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we have not had to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole. further information, including the current status of significant environmental matters and the financial impact incurred for remediation of such environmental matters, if any, is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in note 21 of notes to financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, and in item 1a. risk factors. employees we have approximately 122,000 employees at december 31, 2007, of which approximately 57,000 were located in the united states. 9 item 1a. risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements we have described many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , including the overview of the company and each of our segments and the discussion of their respective economic and other factors and areas of focus for 2008. these sections and other parts of this report (including this item 1a) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. they are based on management assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. we do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. these forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this form 10-k, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. risk factors our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the market and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. the operating results of our segments are impacted by general industry and economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment patterns, demand for our products and services and the level of our manufacturing costs. the operating results of our aerospace segment, which generated 35 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007, are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, including global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production and/or the retirement of older aircraft, global flying hours, and business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates, as well as supplier consolidation, factory transitions and capacity constraints, and the level and mix of u.s. government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further discussed in other risk factors below). the challenging operating environment faced by the commercial airline industry is expected to continue and may be influenced by a wide variety of factors including aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns as well as changes in regulations. future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our aerospace aftermarket sales and margins. the operating results of our automation and control solutions (acs) segment, which generated 36 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007, are impacted by the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending on building and process automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, and global economic growth rates. specialty materials operating results, which generated 14 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007, are impacted by global economic growth rates, and capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining and petrochemical plants. transportation systems operating results, which generated 15 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2007, are impacted by global production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and fuel economy, and consumer spending levels and patterns for automotive aftermarket and car care products. each of the segments is impacted by volatility in raw material prices (as further described below) and non-material inflation. 10 raw material price fluctuations and the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements can increase the cost of our products and services and impact our ability to meet commitments to customers. the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our specialty materials (benzene (the key component in phenol), natural gas, ethylene and sulfur), transportation systems (nickel, steel, other metals and ethylene glycol) and aerospace (nickel, titanium and other metals) segments. our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. our manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of materials (including raw materials) by outside suppliers and their assembly of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely manner and in full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards, and applicable laws and regulations. we also depend in limited instances on sole source suppliers. our suppliers may fail to perform according to specifications as and when required and we may be unable to identify alternate suppliers or to otherwise mitigate the consequences of their non-performance. the supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by external events such as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, labor disputes or governmental actions. our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) develop and retain individuals with the requisite expertise. our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. in addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. we own or are licensed under a large number of u.s. and non-u.s. patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights. our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. in some non-u.s. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. 11 an increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-u.s. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations. our international operations, including u.s. exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results and our strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as china, india and the middle east. in 2007, 49 percent of our total sales (including products manufactured in the u.s. and in international locations) were outside of the u.s. including 29 percent in europe and 11 percent in asia. risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import and trade restrictions (including embargoes), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, government instability and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff in these regions. the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. as we continue to grow our businesses internationally, our operating results could be increasingly effected by the relative strength of the european and asian economies and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. we do have a policy to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, but such activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us and may not be successful in eliminating such volatility. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets. at december 31, 2007, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) totaled approximately $15.7 billion. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess our long-lived assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareowners equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our access to the public debt and equity markets. a change in the level of u.s. government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact sales of aerospace defense and space-related product and services. sales of our defense and space-related products and services are largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the u.s. defense budget. sales as a prime contractor and subcontractor to the u.s. department of defense comprised approximately 26 and 9 percent of aerospace and total sales, respectively, for the year ended december 31, 2007. although u.s. defense spending increased in 2007 and is expected to increase again in 2008, we cannot predict the extent to which funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2009 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by congress, or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. we also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. a shift in defense or space spending to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations. as a supplier of military and other equipment to the u.s. government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the u.s. government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. in addition to normal business risks, companies like honeywell that supply military and other equipment to the u.s. government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on 12 congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislations and regulations and other policies that reflect military and political developments, significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design improvements, intense competition for u.s. government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and other factors characteristic of the industry. changes are customary over the life of u.s. government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of contract prices. our contracts with the u.s. government are subject to audits. like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward price adjustments to certain contracts to comply with various government regulations. we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in appropriate cases and may do so in the future. u.s. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform under the applicable contract. in the case of a termination for convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. if a contract is terminated by the government for our failure to perform we could be liable for additional costs incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from any other source and any other damages suffered by the government. we are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. if honeywell or one of its businesses were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws), it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. the u.s. government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious misconduct. debarment generally does not exceed three years. changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. the sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations. safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the federal aviation administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact aerospace sales, research and development expenditures, operating costs and profitability. the demand for and cost of providing automation and control solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, enviornmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. specialty materials results of operations can be affected by environmental (e.g. government regulation of fluorocarbons), safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions and energy efficiency standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in our transportation systems segment. completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned, and divestitures may not occur as planned. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. in addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve synergies in the planned amount or within the expected timeframe, and/or (iv) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the expected timeframe. 13 we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. we are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, import and export matters and environmental, health and safety matters. resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings. moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to damage awards or settlements, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. it also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all our operational risks and liabilities. the incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. we have incurred remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing toxic substances. additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we incur, and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. our expenses include significant costs related to employee health and retiree health and income benefits. with approximately 122,000 employees, including 57,000 in the u.s., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and income benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. continued increasing health-care costs, and changes in other assumptions used to calculate retiree health and income benefit expenses, may affect our future profitability. additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. in 2007, our tax expense represented 26.4 percent of our income before tax, and includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company that 14 could effect the valuation of our deferred tax assets. our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures. volatility of credit markets or macro-economic factors may increase our cost of financing changes in u.s. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate fluctuations, may increase the cost of financing. in addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. a decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information relating to market risk is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption financial instruments . 46risk factors. u.s. government sales sales to the u.s. government (principally by our aerospace segment), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $4,240, $4,011 and $3,688 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, which included sales to the u.s. department of defense, as a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $3,412, $3,192 and $3,052 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. u.s. defense spending increased in 2008 and is also expected to increase in 2009. we do not expect to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2009 federal spending due principally to the varied mix of the government programs which impact us (oem production, engineering development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs). our contracts with the u.s. government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination by the government. see item 1a. risk factors. backlog our total backlog at december 31, 2008 and 2007 was $12,972 and $12,303 million, respectively. we anticipate that approximately $9,480 million of the 2008 backlog will be filled in 2009. we believe that backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer option. competition we are subject to active competition in substantially all product and service areas. competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. competitive conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and services provided by us, and vary by country. depending on the particular customer or market involved, our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. brand identity, service to customers and quality are generally important competitive factors for our products and services, and there is considerable price competition. other competitive factors for certain products include breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. while our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes. however, a number of our products and services are sold in competition with those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. in addition, some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of original equipment manufacturers. see item 1a risk factors for further discussion. 7 international operations we are engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development mainly in the united states, europe, canada, asia and latin america. u.s. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to our operations. u.s. exports comprised 10, 10 and 11 percent of our total sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. foreign manufactured products and services, mainly in europe, were 39, 39 and 37 percent of our total sales in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. approximately 19 percent of total 2008 sales of aerospace-related products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products and systems and performance of services such as aircraft repair and overhaul. exports were principally made to europe, canada, asia and latin america. foreign manufactured products and systems and performance of services comprised approximately 14 percent of total 2008 aerospace sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in canada and asia. approximately 2 percent of total 2008 sales of automation and control solutions products were exports of u.s. manufactured products. foreign manufactured products and performance of services accounted for 57 percent of total 2008 automation and control solutions sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe with less significant operations in asia and canada. approximately 14 percent of total 2008 sales of specialty materials products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products. exports were principally made to asia and latin america. foreign manufactured products and performance of services comprised 24 percent of total 2008 specialty materials sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in asia and canada. exports of u.s. manufactured products comprised 1 percent of total 2008 sales of transportation systems products. foreign manufactured products accounted for 71 percent of total 2008 sales of transportation systems. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in asia and latin america. financial information including net sales and long-lived assets related to geographic areas is included in note 24 of notes to financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . information regarding the economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations is included in item 1a. risk factors. raw materials the principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available. we experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials and commodities in 2008. we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials, except related to phenol, a raw material used in our specialty materials segment. we purchase phenol under a supply agreement with one supplier. we have no reason to believe there is any material risk to this supply. the costs of certain key raw materials, including natural gas, benzene (the key component in phenol), ethylene, fluorspar and sulfur in our specialty materials business, steel, nickel, other metals and ethylene glycol in our transportation systems business, and nickel, titanium and other metals in our aerospace business, are expected to remain volatile. in addition, in 2008 certain large long-term fixed supplier price agreements expired, primarily relating to components used by our aerospace business, which in the aggregate, subjected us to higher volatility in certain component costs. we will continue to attempt to offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. we have no reason to believe a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impact during 2009. see item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. we are highly dependent on our suppliers and subcontractors in order to meet commitments to our customers. in addition, many major components and product equipment items are procured or subcontracted on a single-source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies. we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance on third parties. while we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are 8 generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. furthermore, the inability of these suppliers to meet their quality and/or delivery commitments to us, due to bankruptcy, natural disasters or any other reason, may result in significant costs and delay, including those in connection with the required recertification of parts from new suppliers with our customers or regulatory agencies. patents, trademarks, licenses and distribution rights our segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. we own, or are licensed under, a large number of patents, patent applications and trademarks acquired over a period of many years, which relate to many of our products or improvements to those products and which are of importance to our business. from time to time, new patents and trademarks are obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and rights are acquired from others. we also have distribution rights of varying terms for a number of products and services produced by other companies. in our judgment, those rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. we believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any patent, trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product, to be of material importance in relation to our total business. see item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. we have registered trademarks for a number of our products and services, including honeywell, aclar, ademco, autolite, bendix, enovate, fire-lite, fram, garrett, genetron, hand held, holts, jurid, metrologic, mk, north, notifier, novar, prestone, redex, simoniz, spectra, system sensor and uop. research and development our research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of new products, technologies and processes and the development of new uses for existing products. the company has research and development activities in the u.s., europe, india and china. research and development (r&amp;d) expense totaled $1,543, $1,459 and $1,411 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the increase in r&amp;d expense in 2008 compared to 2007 of 6 percent was mainly due to additional product, design and development costs in automation and control solutions, increased expenditures on the development of products for new aircraft platforms and increased expenditures on the development of turbocharging systems for new platforms. the increase in r&amp;d expense in 2007 compared to 2006 of 3 percent was mainly due to additional product, design and development costs in automation and control solutions and increased expenditures on the development of turbocharging systems for new platforms. customer-sponsored (principally the u.s. government) r&amp;d activities amounted to an additional $903, $881 and $777 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. environment we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. it is our policy to comply with these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. we are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. it is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances. 9 among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the u.s. environmental protection agency superfund priority list. although, under some court interpretations of these laws, there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we have not had to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole. further information, including the current status of significant environmental matters and the financial impact incurred for remediation of such environmental matters, if any, is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in note 21 of notes to financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, and in item 1a. risk factors. employees we have approximately 128,000 employees at december 31, 2008, of which approximately 58,000 were located in the united states. 10 item 1a. risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements we have described many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , including the overview of the company and each of our segments and the discussion of their respective economic and other factors and areas of focus for 2009. these sections and other parts of this report (including this item 1a) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. they are based on management assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. we do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. these forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this form 10-k, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. risk factors our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the market and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. the operating results of our segments are impacted by general global industry and economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment patterns, demand for our products and services and the level of our manufacturing and shipping costs. the operating results of our aerospace segment, which generated 35 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008, are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, including global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production, the deferral or cancellation of orders for new aircraft, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft platforms, the retirement of older aircraft, global flying hours, and business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates, as well as changes in customer buying patterns with respect to aftermarket parts, supplier consolidation, factory transitions, capacity constraints, and the level and mix of u.s. government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further discussed in other risk factors below). the challenging operating environment faced by the commercial airline industry is expected to continue and may be influenced by a wide variety of factors including declining global flying hours, aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns as well as changes in regulations. future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our aerospace aftermarket sales and margins. the operating results of our automation and control solutions (acs) segment, which generated 38 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008, are impacted by the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending and operating expenditures on building and process automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, and global economic growth rates. specialty materials operating results, which generated 14 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008, are impacted by global economic growth rates, capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, and commodity demand volatility. transportation systems operating results, which generated 13 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2008, are impacted by global production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions 11 and fuel economy, delays in launch schedules for new automotive platforms, and consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket and car care products. the challenging operating environment faced by global automotive and truck manufacturers is expected to continue and may be influenced by a wide variety of factors, including access to and terms of government assistance, ability to reduce record high inventory levels, ability to reduce operating costs, and the ability of consumers to obtain financing for new vehicle purchases. each of the segments is impacted by volatility in raw material prices (as further described below) and non-material inflation. raw material price fluctuations and the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements can increase the cost of our products and services and impact our ability to meet commitments to customers. the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our specialty materials (benzene (the key component in phenol), natural gas, ethylene, fluorspar and sulfur), transportation systems (nickel, steel, other metals and ethylene glycol) and aerospace (nickel, titanium and other metals) segments. our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. our manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of materials (including raw materials) by outside suppliers and their assembly of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely manner and in full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards, and applicable laws and regulations. in addition, many major components and product equipment items are procured or subcontracted on a single-source basis; in limited circumstances these suppliers are the sole source of the component or equipment. our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be constrained by our suppliers ability to adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times of volatile demand. our suppliers may fail to perform according to specifications as and when required and we may be unable to identify alternate suppliers or to otherwise mitigate the consequences of their non-performance. the supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by external events such as natural disasters, extreme weather events, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, labor disputes or governmental actions. our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. transitions to new suppliers may result in significant costs and delays, including those related to the required recertification of parts obtained from new suppliers with our customers and/or regulatory agencies. in addition, because our businesses cannot always immediately adapt their cost structure to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity for certain products may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements, which could adversely impact our operating costs, profitability and customer and supplier relationships. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) develop and retain individuals with the requisite expertise. our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. in addition, the markets for our products may not develop 12 or grow as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. we own or are licensed under a large number of u.s. and non-u.s. patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights. our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. in some non-u.s. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. an increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-u.s. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations. our international operations, including u.s. exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results. our strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as mexico, china, india and the middle east. in 2008, 49 percent of our total sales (including products manufactured in the u.s. and in international locations) were outside of the u.s. including 29 percent in europe and 10 percent in asia. risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as embargoes and trade restrictions), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, government instability, our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff in these regions and maintaining the safety of our employees. the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. as we continue to grow our businesses internationally, our operating results could be increasingly affected by the relative strength of the european and asian economies and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. we do have a policy to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, but such activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us and may not be successful in eliminating such volatility. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets or available for sale investments. at december 31, 2008, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) and available for sale securities totaled approximately $17.4 billion and $0.1 billion, respectively. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. an other than temporary decline in the market value of our available for sale securities may also result in an impairment charge. future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareowners equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our credit rating and access to the public debt and equity markets. 13 a change in the level of u.s. government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact sales of aerospace defense and space-related product and services. sales of our defense and space-related products and services are largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the u.s. defense budget. sales as a prime contractor and subcontractor to the u.s. department of defense comprised approximately 27 and 9 percent of aerospace and total sales, respectively, for the year ended december 31, 2008. although u.s. defense spending increased in 2008 and is expected to increase again in 2009, we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2010 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by congress, or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. we also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. a shift in defense or space spending to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations. as a supplier of military and other equipment to the u.s. government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the u.s. government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. in addition to normal business risks, companies like honeywell that supply military and other equipment to the u.s. government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies that reflect military and political developments, significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design improvements, intense competition for u.s. government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and other factors characteristic of the industry, such as contract award protests and delays in the timing of contract approvals. changes are customary over the life of u.s. government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of contract prices. our contracts with the u.s. government are subject to audits. like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward price adjustments to certain contracts to comply with various government regulations. we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in appropriate cases and may do so in the future. u.s. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform under the applicable contract. in the case of a termination for convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. if a contract is terminated by the government for our failure to perform we could be liable for additional costs incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from any other source and any other damages suffered by the government. we are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. if honeywell or one of its businesses were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws), it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. the u.s. government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious misconduct. debarment generally does not exceed three years. 14 our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. we cannot ensure that our extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures will in all instances protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which the company operates, including laws governing payments to government officials, competition and data privacy. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results of operations and reputation. changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. the sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations. safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the federal aviation administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact aerospace sales, research and development expenditures, operating costs and profitability. the demand for and cost of providing automation and control solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. specialty materials results of operations can be affected by environmental (e.g. government regulation of fluorocarbons), safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions and energy efficiency standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in our transportation systems segment. legislation or regulations regarding areas such as labor and employment, employee benefit plans, tax, health and safety matters, import, export and trade, intellectual property, product certification, product liability and environmental remediation may impact the results of each of our operating segments and our consolidated results. completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned, and divestitures may not occur as planned. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. in addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve synergies in the planned amount or within the expected timeframe, (iv) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the expected timeframe, and (v) the degree of protection provided by indemnities from sellers of acquired companies and the obligations under indemnities provided to purchasers of our divested businesses. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. we are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, import and export matters and environmental, health and safety matters. resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings. moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to damage awards or settlements, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. it also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all our operational risks and liabilities. the 15 incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. we have incurred remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances. additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we incur, and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. our expenses include significant costs related to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits. with approximately 128,000 employees, including approximately 58,000 in the u.s., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health and pension benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. continued increasing health-care costs, volatility in investment returns and discount rates, as well as changes in other assumptions used to calculate retiree health and pension benefit expenses, may adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or require significant contributions to our pension plans. additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. in 2008, our tax expense represented 26.5 percent of our income before tax, and includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company that could effect the valuation of our deferred tax assets. our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures. volatility of credit markets or macro-economic factors could adversely affect our business changes in u.s. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. in addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. a decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing. 16 the current tightening of credit could also adversely affect our customers ability to obtain financing, primarily in our long cycle businesses and airline industry operations. delays in our customers ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing could adversely affect our results of operations. the inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could result in the need to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay, as discussed above. lastly, the disruptions in the u.s. and global financial markets could impact the financial institutions with which we do business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information relating to market risk is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption financial instruments . 48risk factors. 6 u.s. government sales sales to the u.s. government (principally by our aerospace segment), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $4,288, $4,240 and $4,011 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, which included sales to the u.s. department of defense, as a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $3,455, $3,412 and $3,192 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. u.s. defense spending increased in 2009 and is also expected to increase in 2010. we do not expect to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2010 federal spending due principally to the varied mix of the government programs which impact us (oem production, engineering development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs). our contracts with the u.s. government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination by the government. see item 1a. risk factors. backlog our total backlog at december 31, 2009 and 2008 was $13,182 and $12,972 million, respectively. we anticipate that approximately $9,339 million of the 2009 backlog will be filled in 2010. we believe that backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer option. competition we are subject to active competition in substantially all product and service areas. competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. competitive conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and services provided by us, and vary by country. depending on the particular customer or market involved, our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. brand identity, service to customers and quality are generally important competitive factors for our products and services, and there is considerable price competition. other competitive factors for certain products include breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. while our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes. however, a number of our products and services are sold in competition with those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. in addition, some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of original equipment manufacturers. see item 1a risk factors for further discussion. international operations we are engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development mainly in the united states, europe, canada, asia and latin america. u.s. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to our operations. u.s. exports comprised 12, 10 and 10 percent of our total sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. foreign manufactured products and services, mainly in europe, were 39 percent of our total sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007. approximately 18 percent of total 2009 sales of aerospace-related products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products and systems and performance of services such as aircraft repair and overhaul. exports were principally made to europe, canada, asia and latin america. foreign manufactured products and systems and performance of services comprised approximately 15 percent of total 2009 aerospace sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in canada, mexico and asia. approximately 2 percent of total 2009 sales of automation and control solutions products were exports of u.s. manufactured products. foreign manufactured products and performance of services accounted for 57 percent of total 2009 automation and control solutions sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe with less significant operations in asia and canada. 7 approximately 31 percent of total 2009 sales of specialty materials products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products. exports were principally made to asia and latin america. foreign manufactured products and performance of services comprised 25 percent of total 2009 specialty materials sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in asia and canada. exports of u.s. manufactured products comprised 1 percent of total 2009 sales of transportation systems products. foreign manufactured products accounted for 68 percent of total 2009 sales of transportation systems. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in asia and latin america. financial information including net sales and long-lived assets related to geographic areas is included in note 24 of notes to financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . information regarding the economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations is included in item 1a. risk factors. raw materials the principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available. we experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials and commodities in 2009. we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials, except related to phenol, a raw material used in our specialty materials segment. we purchase phenol under a supply agreement with one supplier. the costs of certain key raw materials, including natural gas, benzene (the key component in phenol), ethylene, fluorspar and sulfur in our specialty materials business, steel, nickel, other metals and ethylene glycol in our transportation systems business, and nickel, titanium and other metals in our aerospace business, are expected to remain volatile. in addition, in 2009 certain large long-term fixed supplier price agreements expired, primarily relating to components used by our aerospace business, which in the aggregate, subjected us to higher volatility in certain component costs. we will continue to attempt to offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. we do not anticipate that a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impacts during 2010. see item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. we are highly dependent on our suppliers and subcontractors in order to meet commitments to our customers. in addition, many major components and product equipment items are procured or subcontracted on a single-source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies. we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance on third parties. while we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. furthermore, the inability of these suppliers to meet their quality and/or delivery commitments to us, due to bankruptcy, natural disasters or any other reason, may result in significant costs and delay, including those in connection with the required recertification of parts from new suppliers with our customers or regulatory agencies. patents, trademarks, licenses and distribution rights our segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. we own, or are licensed under, a large number of patents, patent applications and trademarks acquired over a period of many years, which relate to many of our products or improvements to those products and which are of importance to our business. from time to time, new patents and trademarks are obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and rights are acquired from others. we also have distribution rights of varying terms for a number of products and services produced by other companies. in our judgment, those rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. we believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any patent, trademark or related 8 group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product, to be of material importance in relation to our total business. see item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. we have registered trademarks for a number of our products and services, including honeywell, aclar, ademco, autolite, bendix, enovate, fire-lite, fram, garrett, hand held, holts, jurid, metrologic, mk, north, notifier, novar, prestone, redex, rmg, simoniz, spectra, system sensor and uop. research and development our research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of new products, technologies and processes and the development of new uses for existing products. the company has research and development activities in the u.s., europe, india and china. research and development (r&amp;d) expense totaled $1,330, $1,543 and $1,459 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. the decrease in r&amp;d expense in 2009 compared to 2008 of 14 percent was consistent with our 15 percent decrease in net sales. however, as a percentage of sales, r&amp;d increased to 4.3 percent in 2009 compared to 4.2 percent in 2008. the increase as a percentage of sales was driven by lower sales, product, design and development costs in automation and control solutions and specialty materials as well as expenditures on the development of turbocharging systems for new platforms, partially offset by lower r&amp;d expense in aerospace primarily due to major program completions. the increase in r&amp;d expense in 2008 compared to 2007 of 6 percent was mainly due to additional product, design and development costs in automation and control solutions, increased expenditures on the development of products for new aircraft platforms and increased expenditures on the development of turbocharging systems for new platforms. customer-sponsored (principally the u.s. government) r&amp;d activities amounted to an additional $852, $903 and $881 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. environment we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. it is our policy to comply with these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. we are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. it is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances. among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the u.s. environmental protection agency superfund priority list. although, under some court interpretations of these laws, there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we have not had to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole. 9 we do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on the company business or markets that it serves, nor on its results of operations, capital expenditures or financial position. we will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area. further information, including the current status of significant environmental matters and the financial impact incurred for remediation of such environmental matters, if any, is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in note 21 of notes to financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, and in item 1a. risk factors. employees we have approximately 122,000 employees at december 31, 2009, of which approximately 54,000 were located in the united states. 10 item 1a. risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements we have described many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , including the overview of the company and each of our segments and the discussion of their respective economic and other factors and areas of focus for 2010. these sections and other parts of this report (including this item 1a) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. they are based on management assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. we do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. these forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this form 10-k, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. risk factors our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the market and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. the operating results of our segments are impacted by general global industry and economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment patterns, demand for our products and services and the level of our manufacturing and shipping costs. the operating results of our aerospace segment, which generated 35 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009, are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, including global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production, the deferral or cancellation of orders for new aircraft, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft platforms, the retirement of aircraft, global flying hours, and business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates, as well as changes in customer buying patterns with respect to aftermarket parts, supplier consolidation, factory transitions, capacity constraints, and the level and mix of u.s. government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further discussed in other risk factors below). the challenging operating environment faced by the commercial airline industry is expected to continue and may be influenced by a wide variety of factors including global flying hours, aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns as well as changes in regulations. future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our aerospace aftermarket sales and margins. the operating results of our automation and control solutions (acs) segment, which generated 41 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009, are impacted by the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending and operating expenditures on building and process automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, inventory levels in distribution channels, and global economic growth rates. specialty materials operating results, which generated 13 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009, are impacted by global economic growth rates, capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our customers availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, and commodity demand volatility. transportation systems operating results, which generated 11 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2009, are impacted by global production and demand for automobiles and 11 trucks equipped with turbochargers, and regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and fuel economy, delays in launch schedules for new automotive platforms, and consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket and car care products. the challenging operating environment faced by global automotive and truck manufacturers is expected to continue and may be influenced by a wide variety of factors, including access to and terms of government assistance, ability to reduce high inventory levels, ability to reduce operating costs, and the ability of consumers to obtain financing for new vehicle purchases. each of the segments is impacted by volatility in raw material prices (as further described below) and non-material inflation. raw material price fluctuations and the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements can increase the cost of our products and services and impact our ability to meet commitments to customers. the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our specialty materials (benzene (the key component in phenol), natural gas, ethylene, fluorspar and sulfur), transportation systems (nickel, steel, other metals and ethylene glycol) and aerospace (nickel, titanium and other metals) segments. our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. our manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of materials (including raw materials) by outside suppliers and their assembly of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely manner and in full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards, and applicable laws and regulations. in addition, many major components and product equipment items are procured or subcontracted on a single-source basis; in limited circumstances these suppliers are the sole source of the component or equipment. our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be constrained by our suppliers ability to adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times of volatile demand. our suppliers may fail to perform according to specifications as and when required and we may be unable to identify alternate suppliers or to otherwise mitigate the consequences of their non-performance. the supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by external events such as natural disasters, extreme weather events, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, labor disputes, governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes (e.g., product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards, etc.). our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. transitions to new suppliers may result in significant costs and delays, including those related to the required recertification of parts obtained from new suppliers with our customers and/or regulatory agencies. in addition, because our businesses cannot always immediately adapt their cost structure to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity for certain products may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements, which could adversely impact our operating costs, profitability and customer and supplier relationships. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) develop and retain individuals with the requisite expertise. our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the 12 development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. in addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. we own or are licensed under a large number of u.s. and non-u.s. patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights. our intellectual property rights may expire or be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. in some non-u.s. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. an increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-u.s. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations. our international operations, including u.s. exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results. our strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as mexico, china, india, the middle east and eastern europe. in 2009, 51 percent of our total sales (including products manufactured in the u.s. and in international locations) were outside of the u.s. including 28 percent in europe and 11 percent in asia. risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as embargoes and trade restrictions), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, government instability, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. as we continue to grow our businesses internationally, our operating results could be increasingly affected by the relative strength of the european and asian economies and the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. we do have a policy to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, but such activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us and may not be successful in eliminating such volatility. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets or available for sale investments. at december 31, 2009, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) and available for sale securities totaled approximately $17.5 billion and $0.1 billion, respectively. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. an other than temporary decline in the market value of our available for sale securities may also result in an impairment charge. future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareowners equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our credit rating and access to the public debt and equity markets. 13 a change in the level of u.s. government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact sales of aerospace defense and space-related product and services. sales of our defense and space-related products and services are largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the u.s. defense budget. sales as a prime contractor and subcontractor to the u.s. department of defense comprised approximately 32 and 11 percent of aerospace and total sales, respectively, for the year ended december 31, 2009. although u.s. defense spending increased in 2009 and is expected to increase again in 2010, we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2011 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by congress, or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. we also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. a shift in defense or space spending to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations. as a supplier of military and other equipment to the u.s. government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the u.s. government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. in addition to normal business risks, companies like honeywell that supply military and other equipment to the u.s. government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies that reflect military and political developments, significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design improvements, intense competition for u.s. government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and other factors characteristic of the industry, such as contract award protests and delays in the timing of contract approvals. changes are customary over the life of u.s. government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of contract prices. our contracts with the u.s. government are subject to audits. like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward price adjustments to certain contracts or changes to certain accounting systems or controls to comply with various government regulations. we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in appropriate cases and may do so in the future. u.s. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform under the applicable contract. in the case of a termination for convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. if a contract is terminated by the government for our failure to perform we could be liable for additional costs incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from any other source and any other damages suffered by the government. we are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. if honeywell or one of its businesses were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws), it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. the u.s. government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious misconduct. debarment generally does not exceed three years. 14 our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, agents or business partners. we cannot ensure that our extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures will in all instances protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which the company operates, including laws governing payments to government officials, competition and data privacy. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results of operations and reputation. changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. the sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations. safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the federal aviation administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact aerospace sales, research and development expenditures, operating costs and profitability. the demand for and cost of providing automation and control solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. specialty materials results of operations can be affected by environmental (e.g. government regulation of fluorocarbons), safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions and energy efficiency standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in our transportation systems segment. legislation or regulations regarding areas such as labor and employment, employee benefit plans, tax, health and safety matters, import, export and trade, intellectual property, product certification, product liability and environmental remediation may impact the results of each of our operating segments and our consolidated results. completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned, and divestitures may not occur as planned. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. in addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve synergies in the planned amount or within the expected timeframe, (iv) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the expected timeframe, and (v) the degree of protection provided by indemnities from sellers of acquired companies and the obligations under indemnities provided to purchasers of our divested businesses. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. we are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, import and export matters and environmental, health and safety matters. resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings. moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to damage awards or settlements, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. it also is 15 not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all our operational risks and liabilities. the incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. we have incurred remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances. additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we incur, and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. our expenses include significant costs related to employee and retiree health benefits. with approximately 122,000 employees, including approximately 54,000 in the u.s., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. continued increasing health-care costs, legislative or regulatory changes, and volatility in discount rates, as well as changes in other assumptions used to calculate retiree health benefit expenses, may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and pension contributions in future periods. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. funding requirements for our u.s. pension plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. for a discussion regarding the significant assumptions used to estimate pension expense, including discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see critical accounting policies included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. in 2009, our tax expense represented 26.5 percent of our income before 16 tax, and includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company that could effect the valuation of our deferred tax assets. our future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures. volatility of credit markets or macro-economic factors could adversely affect our business. changes in u.s. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. in addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. a decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing. delays in our customers ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing to our customers, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. the inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could result in the need to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay, as discussed above. lastly, disruptions in the u.s. and global financial markets could impact the financial institutions with which we do business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information relating to market risk is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption financial instruments . 49q uantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information relating to market risk is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption financial instruments . 55risk factors. u.s. government sales sales to the u.s. government (principally by our aerospace segment), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $4,109, $4,276 and $4,354 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, which included sales to the u.s. department of defense, as a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $3,273, $3,374 and $3,500 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. base u.s. defense spending (excludes overseas contingent operations) was essentially flat in 2012 compared to 2011 (see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations). due to anticipated lower u.s. government spending levels mandated by the budget control act (sequestration), we expect a slight decline in our defense and space revenue in 2013. we do not expect our overall operating results to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2013 federal defense spending due principally to the varied mix of the 7 government programs which impact us (oem production, engineering development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs), increases in direct foreign defense and space market sales, as well as our diversified commercial businesses. our contracts with the u.s. government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination by the government. see item 1a. risk factors. backlog our total backlog at december 31, 2012 and 2011 was $16,807 and $16,160 million, respectively. we anticipate that approximately $12,102 million of the 2012 backlog will be filled in 2013. we believe that backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer option. competition we are subject to active competition in substantially all product and service areas. competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. competitive conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and services provided by us, and vary by country. our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. brand identity, service to customers and quality are important competitive factors for our products and services, and there is considerable price competition. other competitive factors include breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. while our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes. a number of our products and services are sold in competition with those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. in addition, some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of original equipment manufacturers. see item 1a risk factors for further discussion. international operations we are engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development globally. u.s. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to our operations. u.s. exports comprised 14, 12 and 11 percent of our total sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. foreign manufactured products and services, mainly in europe and asia, were 41, 43 and 42 percent of our total sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. approximately 20 percent of total 2012 sales of aerospace-related products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products and systems and performance of services such as aircraft repair and overhaul. exports were principally made to europe, canada, asia and latin america. foreign manufactured products and systems and performance of services comprised approximately 16 percent of total 2012 aerospace sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in canada and asia. approximately 3 percent of total 2012 sales of automation and control solutions products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products. foreign manufactured products and performance of services accounted for 57 percent of total 2012 automation and control solutions sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe and asia, with less significant operations in canada and australia. approximately 35 percent of total 2012 sales of performance materials and technologies products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products. exports were principally made to asia and latin america. foreign manufactured products and performance of services comprised 22 percent of total 2012 performance materials and technologies sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in asia. approximately 3 percent of total 2012 sales of transportation systems products were exports of u.s. manufactured products. foreign manufactured products accounted for 83 percent of total 2012 8 sales of transportation systems. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in asia and australia. the company and its subsidiaries have a current policy not to conduct business with iran. pursuant to section 13(r) of the securities exchange act of 1934, we note the following. in 2009, honeywell acquired rmg group ( rmg ), a german company that had a pre-existing contract with an iranian entity for the supply and installation of compressed natural gas refueling stations in iran. the rmg contract was entered into and performed by a foreign entity and did not involve the development of natural gas resources or pipelines, and we believe that it was not prohibited by or sanctionable under applicable laws. in july 2011, rmg assigned performance under the contract to an unaffiliated italian company. during the first quarter of 2012, the unaffiliated italian company performed some services under the contract. however, since the iranian customer failed to make required payments, the unaffiliated italian company has performed no work under the assigned contract since the first quarter of 2012. the company does not intend to perform any further services under this contract, in accordance with company policy and applicable laws. no gross revenues or net profits have been received by the company under this contract from iran in 2012. additionally, a non-u.s. affiliate of honeywell received $1,120,000 (representing net profit of $400,000 recognized in a prior period) during 2012 for services performed and / or goods delivered in or prior to the first quarter of 2011 in connection with automation engineering services contracts entered into in 2009 involving iran. these contracts were also entered into and performed by non-us entities, and we believe that the contracts and their performance were not prohibited by or sanctionable under laws applicable at the time. honeywell italian affiliate transferred its remaining obligations to an unaffiliated company based in dubai in the fourth quarter of 2010. honeywell has not performed any services or provided any materials under these contracts after the first quarter of 2011, and it does not intend to provide any further services or materials under these contracts, in accordance with company policy and applicable laws. ofac issued a general license in 31 cfr &sect; 560.555 valid from october 9, 2012 to march 8, 2013, which permits transactions ordinarily incident to the wind-down of operations involving iran by foreign subsidiaries of u.s. companies. honeywell non-u.s. affiliate in italy received payments of $187,000 (out of a total of $1,120,000 received in 2012) during the validity period of the general license. to honeywell knowledge, neither it nor any of its affiliates engaged in any other activity during 2012 required to be disclosed under the securities exchange act of 1934. financial information including net sales and long-lived assets related to geographic areas is included in note 25 of notes to financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . information regarding the economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations is included in item 1a. risk factors. raw materials the principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available. although we occasionally experience disruption in raw materials supply, we experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials and commodities in 2012. we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials, except related to r240 (a key component in foam blowing agents), a raw material used in our performance materials and technologies segment. the costs of certain key raw materials, including cumene, fluorspar, perchloroethylene, r240, natural gas, sulfur and ethylene in our performance materials and technologies business, nickel, steel and other metals in our transportation systems business, and nickel, titanium and other metals in our aerospace business, are expected to continue to fluctuate. we will continue to attempt to offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. we do not presently anticipate that a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impacts during 2013. see item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. patents, trademarks, licenses and distribution rights our segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. we own, or are licensed under, a large number of patents, patent applications and trademarks acquired over a period of many years, which relate to many of our 9 products or improvements to those products and which are of importance to our business. from time to time, new patents and trademarks are obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and rights are acquired from others. we also have distribution rights of varying terms for a number of products and services produced by other companies. in our judgment, those rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. we believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any patent, trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product, to be of material importance in relation to our total business. see item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. we have registered trademarks for a number of our products and services, including honeywell, aclar, ademco, bendix, bw, callidus, enovate, esser, fire-lite, garrett, genetron, gent, howard leight, jurid, matrikon, maxon, mk, north, notifier, novar, rmg, silent knight, solstice, spectra, system sensor, trend, tridium and uop. research and development our research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of new products, technologies and processes, and the development of new uses for existing products and software applications. the company principal research and development activities are in the u.s., india, europe and china. research and development (r&amp;d) expense totaled $1,847, $1,799 and $1,450 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the increase in r&amp;d expense of 3 percent in 2012 compared to 2011 was mainly due to increased expenditures on the development of new technologies to support existing and new aircraft platforms in our aerospace segment and new product development in our automation and control solutions and performance materials technologies segments. the increase in r&amp;d expense of 24 percent in 2011 compared to 2010 was mainly due to increased expenditures on the development of new technologies to support existing and new aircraft platforms in our aerospace segment, the development of turbocharging systems for new diesel and gas applications in our transportation systems segment and new product development in our automation and control solutions segment. r&amp;d as a percentage of sales was 4.9, 4.9 and 4.5 percent in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. customer-sponsored (principally the u.s. government) r&amp;d activities amounted to an additional $835, $867 and $874 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. environment we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. it is our policy to comply with these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. we are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. it is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances. among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the u.s. environmental protection 10 agency superfund priority list. although, under some court interpretations of these laws, there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, to date we have not had to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole. we do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on the company business or markets that it serves, nor on its results of operations, capital expenditures or financial position. we will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area. further information, including the current status of significant environmental matters and the financial impact incurred for remediation of such environmental matters, if any, is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in note 22 commitments and contingencies of notes to financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, and in item 1a. risk factors. employees we have approximately 132,000 employees at december 31, 2012, of which approximately 52,000 were located in the united states. 11 item 1a. risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements we have described many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , including the overview of the company and each of our segments and the discussion of their respective economic and other factors and areas of focus for 2013. these sections and other parts of this report (including this item 1a) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. they are based on management assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. we do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. these forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this form 10-k, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. risk factors our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to the risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the markets and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. the operating results of our segments are impacted by general global industry and economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment patterns, demand for our products and services and the level of our manufacturing and shipping costs. the operating results of our aerospace segment, which generated 32 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2012, are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, including global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production, the deferral or cancellation of orders for new aircraft, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft platforms, the retirement of aircraft, global flying hours, and business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates, as well as changes in customer buying patterns with respect to aftermarket parts, supplier consolidation, factory transitions, capacity constraints, and the level and mix of u.s. and foreign government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further discussed in other risk factors below). the challenging operating environment faced by the commercial airline industry may be influenced by a wide variety of factors including global flying hours, aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns as well as changes in regulations. future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our aerospace aftermarket sales and margins. the operating results of our automation and control solutions (acs) segment, which generated 42 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2012, are impacted by the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending and operating expenditures on building and process automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, inventory levels in distribution channels, and global economic growth rates. performance materials and technologies operating results, which generated 16 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2012, are impacted by global economic growth rates, capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our customers availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, and raw material demand and supply volatility. transportation systems operating results, which generated 10 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2012, are impacted by global production and demand for 12 automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, and regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and fuel economy, delays in launch schedules for new automotive platforms, and consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket products. demand of global automotive and truck manufacturers will continue to be influenced by a wide variety of factors, including ability of consumers to obtain financing, ability to reduce operating costs and overall consumer and business confidence. each of the segments is impacted by volatility in raw material prices (as further described below) and non- material inflation. raw material price fluctuations, the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability to meet commitments to customers and cause us to incur significant liabilities. the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our performance materials and technologies (cumene, fluorspar, perchloroethylene, r240, natural gas, sulfur and ethylene), transportation systems (nickel, steel and other metals) and aerospace (nickel, titanium and other metals) segments. our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. our manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of materials (including raw materials) by outside suppliers and their assembly of major components, and subsystems used in our products in a timely manner and in full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards, and applicable laws and regulations. in addition, many major components, product equipment items and raw materials are procured or subcontracted on a single-source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies; in some circumstances these suppliers are the sole source of the component or equipment. although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance on third parties and we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be constrained by our suppliers inability to scale production and adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times of volatile demand. our suppliers may fail to perform according to specifications as and when required and we may be unable to identify alternate suppliers or to otherwise mitigate the consequences of their non-performance. the supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by suppliers decisions to exit certain businesses, bankruptcy and by external events such as natural disasters, extreme weather events, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, labor disputes, governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes (e.g., product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, product authenticity, climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards, etc.). our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. transitions to new suppliers may result in significant costs and delays, including those related to the required recertification of parts obtained from new suppliers with our customers and/or regulatory agencies. in addition, because our businesses cannot always immediately adapt their cost structure to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity for certain products may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements, which could adversely impact our operating costs, profitability and customer and supplier relationships. our facilities, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to, among other things, fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. if any of these facilities or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, result in personal injury or property damage, damage relationships with our customers and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities or systems, as well as result in other liabilities and adverse impacts. the same risk could also arise from the failure of critical systems supplied by honeywell to large industrial, refining and petrochemical customers. 13 our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) develop and retain individuals with the requisite expertise. our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. in addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. we own or are licensed under a large number of u.s. and non-u.s. patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights. our intellectual property rights may expire or be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. in some non-u.s. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology (it) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the company and/or its third party service providers. while we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the company. although we employ comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring of our it networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems), cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. an increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-u.s. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations. our international operations, including u.s. exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results. our strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as china, india, the middle east and other high growth regions. 14 in 2012, approximately 55 percent of our total sales (including products manufactured in the u.s. and sold outside the u.s. as well as products manufactured in international locations) were outside of the u.s. including approximately 28 percent in europe and approximately 13 percent in asia. risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as embargoes), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, government instability, acts of terrorism, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. we are also subject to u.s. laws prohibiting companies from doing business in certain countries, or restricting the type of business that may be conducted in these countries. the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. uncertain global economic conditions arising from circumstances such as sovereign debt issues, slowing growth in emerging regions and credit rating downgrades in certain european countries or speculation regarding changes to the composition or viability of the euro zone could result in reduced customer confidence resulting in decreased demand for our products and services, disruption in payment patterns and higher default rates, a tightening of credit markets (see risk factor below regarding volatility of credit markets for further discussion), increased risk regarding supplier performance, increased counterparty risk with respect to the financial institutions with which we do business, and exchange rate fluctuations. while we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and commitments, a material disruption to the financial institutions with whom we transact business could expose honeywell to financial loss. sales and purchases in currencies other than the us dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the us dollar and may adversely affect our results of operations. currency fluctuations may affect product demand and prices we pay for materials, as a result, our operating margins may be negatively impacted. fluctuations in exchange rates may give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of our non-u.s. businesses are translated into u.s. dollars. while we monitor our exchange rate exposures and seek to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, such activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us or successful in significantly mitigating such volatility. volatility of credit markets or macro-economic factors could adversely affect our business. changes in u.s. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. in addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. a decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing. delays in our customers ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing to our customers, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. the inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could result in the need to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay, as discussed above. lastly, disruptions in the u.s. and global financial markets could impact the financial institutions with which we do business. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets or available for sale investments. at december 31, 2012, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) and available for sale securities totaled approximately $19.9 billion and $0.5 billion, respectively. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. an other than temporary decline in the market value of our available for 15 sale securities may also result in an impairment charge. future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareowners equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our credit rating and access to the public debt and equity markets. a change in the level of u.s. government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact aerospace defense and space sales and results of operations. sales of our defense and space-related products and services are largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the u.s. defense budget. sales as a prime contractor and subcontractor to the u.s. department of defense comprised approximately 27 and 9 percent of aerospace and total sales, respectively, for the year ended december 31, 2012. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2013 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by congress, or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. we also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. a shift in defense or space spending to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations. as a supplier of military and other equipment to the u.s. government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the u.s. government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. in addition to normal business risks, companies like honeywell that supply military and other equipment to the u.s. government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies that reflect military and political developments, significant changes in contract requirements, complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for frequent design improvements, intense competition for u.s. government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and other factors characteristic of the industry, such as contract award protests and delays in the timing of contract approvals. changes are customary over the life of u.s. government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments to contract prices and schedules. our contracts with the u.s. government are also subject to various government audits. like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward price adjustments to certain contracts or changes to certain accounting systems or controls to comply with various government regulations. when appropriate and prudent, we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future. u.s. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent with the terms of the applicable contract. in the case of a termination for convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. if a contract is terminated by the government for our failure to perform we could be liable for reprocurement costs incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and for other damages suffered by the government as permitted under the contract. we are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. if, as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws), honeywell or one of its businesses were found to have violated applicable law, it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. the u.s. government 16 also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious misconduct. debarment generally does not exceed three years. our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, vendors, agents or business partners. we cannot ensure that our extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures will, in all instances, protect us from reckless, unethical or criminal acts committed by our employees, vendors, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which the company operates, including laws governing payments to government officials, competition, data privacy and rights of employees. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results of operations and reputation. changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. the sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations. safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the federal aviation administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact aerospace sales, research and development expenditures, operating costs and profitability. the demand for and cost of providing automation and control solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. performance materials and technologies results of operations can be affected by environmental (e.g. government regulation of fluorocarbons), safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions, fuel economy and energy efficiency standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in our transportation systems segment. honeywell sells products that address safety and environmental regulation and a substantial portion of our portfolio is dedicated to energy efficient products and services. legislation or regulations regarding areas such as labor and employment, employee benefit plans, tax, health, safety and environmental matters, import, export and trade, intellectual property, product certification, and product liability may impact the results of each of our operating segments and our consolidated results. completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned, and divestitures may not occur as planned. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. in addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve synergies in the planned amount or within the expected timeframe, (iv) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the expected timeframe, and (v) the degree of protection provided by indemnities from sellers of acquired companies and the obligations under indemnities provided to purchasers of our divested businesses. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. we are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, antitrust, import and export matters and environmental, health and safety matters. resolution of these matters can be 17 prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings. moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. it also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all our operational risks and liabilities. the incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. we have incurred remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances. additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, the establishment of stricter state or federal toxicity standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. our expenses include significant costs related to employee and retiree health benefits. with approximately 132,000 employees, including approximately 52,000 in the u.s., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. continued increasing health-care costs, legislative or regulatory changes, and volatility in discount rates, as well as changes in other assumptions used to calculate retiree health benefit expenses, may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and pension contributions in future periods. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. funding requirements for our u.s. pension plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. for a discussion regarding the significant assumptions used to estimate pension expense, including discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan 18 accounting policies, see critical accounting policies included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various non-u.s. jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. in 2012, our tax expense represented 24.4 percent of our income before tax, and includes estimates of additional tax which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company, that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information relating to market risk is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption financial instruments . 56risk factors. u.s. government sales sales to the u.s. government (principally by our aerospace segment), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $3,856, $4,109 and $4,276 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, which included sales to the u.s. department of defense, as a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $3,066, $3,273 and $3,374 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. u.s. defense spending decreased in 2013 compared to 2012. due to anticipated lower u.s. government spending levels mandated by the budget control act (sequestration), we expect a slight decline in our defense and space revenue in 2014. we do not expect our overall operating results to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2014 federal defense spending due principally to the varied mix of the government programs which impact us (oem production, engineering development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs), increases in direct foreign defense and space market sales, as well as our diversified commercial businesses. 10 our contracts with the u.s. government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination by the government. see item 1a. risk factors. backlog our total backlog at december 31, 2013 and 2012 was $16,523 and $16,307 million, respectively. we anticipate that approximately $12,262 million of the 2013 backlog will be filled in 2014. we believe that backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer option. competition we are subject to active competition in substantially all product and service areas. competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. competitive conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and services provided by us, and vary by country. our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. brand identity, service to customers and quality are important competitive factors for our products and services, and there is considerable price competition. other competitive factors include breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. while our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes. a number of our products and services are sold in competition with those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. in addition, some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of original equipment manufacturers. see item 1a risk factors for further discussion. international operations we are engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development globally. u.s. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to our operations. u.s. exports comprised 14, 14 and 12 percent of our total sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. foreign manufactured products and services, mainly in europe and asia, were 41, 41 and 43 percent of our total sales in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. approximately 23 percent of total 2013 sales of aerospace-related products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products and systems and performance of services such as aircraft repair and overhaul. exports were principally made to europe, asia, canada, and latin america. foreign manufactured products and systems and performance of services comprised approximately 16 percent of total 2013 aerospace sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in canada and asia. approximately 3 percent of total 2013 sales of automation and control solutions products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products. foreign manufactured products and performance of services accounted for 57 percent of total 2013 automation and control solutions sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe and asia, with less significant operations in canada and australia. approximately 30 percent of total 2013 sales of performance materials and technologies products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products. exports were principally made to asia and latin america. foreign manufactured products and performance of services comprised 23 percent of total 2013 performance materials and technologies sales. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe and asia. approximately 4 percent of total 2013 sales of transportation systems products were exports of u.s. manufactured products. foreign manufactured products accounted for 84 percent of total 2013 sales of transportation systems. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in asia. 11 financial information including net sales and long-lived assets related to geographic areas is included in note 25 of notes to financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data . information regarding the economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations is included in item 1a. risk factors. raw materials the principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available. although we occasionally experience disruption in raw materials supply, we experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials and commodities in 2013. we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials, except related to r240 (a key component in foam blowing agents), a raw material used in our performance materials and technologies segment. the costs of certain key raw materials, including cumene, fluorspar, r240, natural gas, perchloroethylene, sulfur and ethylene in our performance materials and technologies business, nickel, steel and other metals in our transportation systems business, and nickel, titanium and other metals in our aerospace business, are expected to continue to fluctuate. we will continue to attempt to offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. we do not presently anticipate that a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impacts during 2014. see item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. patents, trademarks, licenses and distribution rights our segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. we own, or are licensed under, a large number of patents, patent applications and trademarks acquired over a period of many years, which relate to many of our products or improvements to those products and which are of importance to our business. from time to time, new patents and trademarks are obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and rights are acquired from others. we also have distribution rights of varying terms for a number of products and services produced by other companies. in our judgment, those rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. we believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any patent, trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product, to be of material importance in relation to our total business. see item 1a. risk factors for further discussion. we have registered trademarks for a number of our products and services, including honeywell, aclar, ademco, bendix, bw, callidus, enovate, esser, fire-lite, garrett, genetron, gent, howard leight, intermec, jurid, matrikon, maxon, mk, north, notifier, novar, oleflex, parex, rae systems, rmg, silent knight, solstice, spectra, system sensor, trend, tridium and uop. research and development our research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of new products, technologies and processes, and the development of new uses for existing products and software applications. the company principal research and development activities are in the u.s., india, europe and china. research and development (r&amp;d) expense totaled $1,804, $1,847 and $1,799 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the decrease in r&amp;d expense of 2 percent in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to lower pension (primarily due to the absence of u.s. pension mark-to-market adjustment in 2013) and other postretirement expenses, partially offset by the increased expenditures for new product development in our automation and control solutions and performance materials technologies segments. the increase in r&amp;d expense of 3 percent in 2012 compared to 2011 was mainly due to increased expenditures on the development of new technologies to support existing and new aircraft platforms in our aerospace segment and new product development in our automation and control solutions and performance materials technologies segments. r&amp;d as a percentage of sales was 4.6, 4.9 and 4.9 percent in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. customer-sponsored (principally 12 the u.s. government) r&amp;d activities amounted to an additional $969, $835 and $867 million in 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. environment we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. it is our policy to comply with these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. we are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. it is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances. among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the u.s. environmental protection agency superfund priority list. although, under some court interpretations of these laws, there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, to date we have not had to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole. we do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on the company business or markets that it serves, nor on its results of operations, capital expenditures or financial position. we will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area. further information, including the current status of significant environmental matters and the financial impact incurred for remediation of such environmental matters, if any, is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, in note 22 commitments and contingencies of notes to financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data, and in item 1a. risk factors. employees we have approximately 131,000 employees at december 31, 2013, of which approximately 51,000 were located in the united states. 13 item 1a. risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements we have described many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , including the overview of the company and each of our segments and the discussion of their respective economic and other factors and areas of focus for 2014. these sections and other parts of this report (including this item 1a) contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. they are based on management assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. we do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. these forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this form 10-k, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. risk factors our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to the risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the markets and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. the operating results of our segments are impacted by general global industry and economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment patterns, demand for our products and services and the level of our manufacturing and shipping costs. the operating results of our aerospace segment, which generated 31 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2013, are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, including global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production, the deferral or cancellation of orders for new aircraft, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft platforms, the retirement of aircraft, global flying hours, and business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates, as well as changes in customer buying patterns with respect to aftermarket parts, supplier consolidation, factory transitions, capacity constraints, and the level and mix of u.s. and foreign government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further discussed in other risk factors below). the challenging operating environment faced by the commercial airline industry may be influenced by a wide variety of factors including global flying hours, aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline consolidation, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns as well as changes in regulations. future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our aerospace aftermarket sales and margins. the operating results of our automation and control solutions (acs) segment, which generated 42 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2013, are impacted by the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending and operating expenditures on building and process automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, inventory levels in distribution channels, and global economic growth rates. performance materials and technologies operating results, which generated 17 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2013, are impacted by global economic growth rates, capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our customers availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, and raw material demand and supply volatility. transportation systems operating results, which generated 10 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2013, are impacted by global production and demand for 14 automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, and regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and fuel economy, delays in launch schedules for new automotive platforms, and consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket products. demand of global automotive and truck manufacturers will continue to be influenced by a wide variety of factors, including ability of consumers to obtain financing, ability to reduce operating costs and overall consumer and business confidence. each of the segments is impacted by volatility in raw material prices (as further described below) and non- material inflation. raw material price fluctuations, the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability to meet commitments to customers and cause us to incur significant liabilities. the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our performance materials and technologies (cumene, fluorspar, r240, natural gas, perchloroethylene, sulfur and ethylene), transportation systems (nickel, steel and other metals) and aerospace (nickel, titanium and other metals) segments. our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. our manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of materials (including raw materials) by outside suppliers and their assembly of major components, and subsystems used in our products in a timely manner and in full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards, and applicable laws and regulations. in addition, many major components, product equipment items and raw materials are procured or subcontracted on a single-source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies; in some circumstances these suppliers are the sole source of the component or equipment. although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance on third parties and we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be constrained by our suppliers inability to scale production and adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times of volatile demand. our suppliers may fail to perform according to specifications as and when required and we may be unable to identify alternate suppliers or to otherwise mitigate the consequences of their non-performance. the supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by suppliers decisions to exit certain businesses, bankruptcy and by external events such as natural disasters, extreme weather events, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, labor disputes, governmental actions and legislative or regulatory changes (e.g., product certification or stewardship requirements, sourcing restrictions, product authenticity, climate change or greenhouse gas emission standards, etc.). our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. transitions to new suppliers may result in significant costs and delays, including those related to the required recertification of parts obtained from new suppliers with our customers and/or regulatory agencies. in addition, because our businesses cannot always immediately adapt their cost structure to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity for certain products may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements, which could adversely impact our operating costs, profitability and customer and supplier relationships. our facilities, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to, among other things, fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. if any of these facilities or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, result in personal injury or property damage, damage relationships with our customers and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities or systems, as well as result in other liabilities and adverse impacts. the same risk could also arise from the failure of critical systems supplied by honeywell to large industrial, refining and petrochemical customers. 15 failure to increase productivity through sustainable operational improvements, as well as an inability to successfully execute repositioning projects, may reduce our profitability or adversely impact our businesses our profitability and margin growth are dependent upon our ability to drive sustainable improvements through the honeywell enablers. in addition, we seek productivity and cost savings benefits through repositioning actions and projects, such as consolidation of manufacturing facilities, transitions to cost- competitive regions and product line rationalizations. risks associated with these actions include delays in execution of the planned initiatives, additional unexpected costs, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to employee attrition. many of the restructuring actions are complex and difficult to implement. hence, we may not realize the full operational or financial benefits we expected, the recognition of these benefits may be delayed and these actions may potentially disrupt our operations. see note 3 repositioning and other charges of notes to the financial statements in item 8. financial statements and supplementary data for a summary of our repositioning actions. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) develop and retain individuals with the requisite expertise. our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. in addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. we own or are licensed under a large number of u.s. and non-u.s. patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights. our intellectual property rights may expire or be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. in some non-u.s. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology (it) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the company and/or its third party service providers. while we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the company. although we employ comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access 16 controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring of our it networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems), cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. an increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-u.s. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations. our international operations, including u.s. exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results. our strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as china, india, the middle east and other high growth regions. in 2013, approximately 55 percent of our total sales (including products manufactured in the u.s. and sold outside the u.s. as well as products manufactured in international locations) were outside of the u.s. including approximately 29 percent in europe and approximately 13 percent in asia. risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as embargoes), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, government instability, acts of terrorism, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. we are also subject to u.s. laws prohibiting companies from doing business in certain countries, or restricting the type of business that may be conducted in these countries. the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. with more than half of the company sales generated internationally, global economic conditions can have a significant impact on our total sales. uncertain global economic conditions arising from a tepid recovery in the euro zone and varying rates of growth in emerging regions could reduce customer confidence that results in decreased demand for our products and services, disruption in payment patterns and higher default rates, a tightening of credit markets (see risk factor below regarding volatility of credit markets for further discussion) and increased risk regarding supplier performance. volatility in exchange rates of emerging market currencies present uncertainties that complicate planning and could unexpectedly impact our profitability, presenting increased counterparty risk with respect to the financial institutions with whom we do business. while we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and commitments, a material disruption to the financial institutions with whom we transact business could expose honeywell to financial loss. sales and purchases in currencies other than the us dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the us dollar and may adversely affect our results of operations. currency fluctuations may affect product demand and prices we pay for materials, as a result, our operating margins may be negatively impacted. fluctuations in exchange rates may give rise to translation gains or losses when financial statements of our non-u.s. businesses are translated into u.s. dollars. while we monitor our exchange rate exposures and seek to reduce the risk of volatility through hedging activities, such activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us or successful in significantly mitigating such volatility. volatility of credit markets or macro-economic factors could adversely affect our business. changes in u.s. and global financial and equity markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. in addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. a decrease in these ratings could increase our cost of borrowing. 17 delays in our customers ability to obtain financing, or the unavailability of financing to our customers, could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flow. the inability of our suppliers to obtain financing could result in the need to transition to alternate suppliers, which could result in significant incremental cost and delay, as discussed above. lastly, disruptions in the u.s. and global financial markets could impact the financial institutions with which we do business. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets or available for sale investments. at december 31, 2013, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) and available for sale securities totaled approximately $20.8 billion and $0.8 billion, respectively. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in impairments to goodwill and other long-lived assets. an other than temporary decline in the market value of our available for sale securities may also result in an impairment charge. future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated shareowners equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our credit rating and access to the public debt and equity markets. a change in the level of u.s. government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact aerospace defense and space sales and results of operations. sales of our defense and space-related products and services are largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the u.s. defense budget. sales as a prime contractor and subcontractor to the u.s. department of defense comprised approximately 25 percent and 8 percent of aerospace and total sales, respectively, for the year ended december 31, 2013. we cannot predict the extent to which total funding and/or funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2014 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by congress, or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. we also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. a shift in defense or space spending to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations. as a supplier of military and other equipment to the u.s. government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the u.s. government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. in addition to normal business risks, companies like honeywell that supply military and other equipment to the u.s. government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies that reflect military and political developments, significant changes in contract requirements, complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for frequent design improvements, intense competition for u.s. government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and other factors characteristic of the industry, such as contract award protests and delays in the timing of contract approvals. changes are customary over the life of u.s. government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments to contract prices and schedules. our contracts with the u.s. government are also subject to various government audits. like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward price adjustments to certain contracts or changes to certain accounting systems or controls to comply with 18 various government regulations. when appropriate and prudent, we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future. u.s. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent with the terms of the applicable contract. in the case of a termination for convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. if a contract is terminated by the government for our failure to perform we could be liable for reprocurement costs incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from another source and for other damages suffered by the government as permitted under the contract. we are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. if, as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws), honeywell or one of its businesses were found to have violated applicable law, it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. the u.s. government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious misconduct. debarment generally does not exceed three years. our reputation and ability to do business may be impacted by the improper conduct of employees, vendors, agents or business partners. we cannot ensure that our extensive compliance controls, policies and procedures will, in all instances, protect us from reckless, unethical or criminal acts committed by our employees, vendors, agents or business partners that would violate the laws of the jurisdictions in which the company operates, including laws governing payments to government officials, competition, data privacy and rights of employees. any improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, results of operations and reputation. changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. the sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations. safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the federal aviation administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact aerospace sales, research and development expenditures, operating costs and profitability. the demand for and cost of providing automation and control solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. performance materials and technologies results of operations can be affected by environmental (e.g. government regulation of fluorocarbons), safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions, fuel economy and energy efficiency standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in our transportation systems segment. honeywell sells products that address safety and environmental regulation and a substantial portion of our portfolio is dedicated to energy efficient products and services. legislation or regulations regarding areas such as labor and employment, employee benefit plans, tax, health, safety and environmental matters, import, export and trade, intellectual property, product certification, and product liability may impact the results of each of our operating segments and our consolidated results. completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned, and divestitures may not occur as planned. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. in addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted 19 by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the discovery of unanticipated issues or liabilities, (iii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve synergies in the planned amount or within the expected timeframe, (iv) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the expected timeframe, and (v) the degree of protection provided by indemnities from sellers of acquired companies and the obligations under indemnities provided to purchasers of our divested businesses. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. we are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, antitrust, import and export matters and environmental, health and safety matters. resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain due to the inherent uncertainty in litigation and other proceedings. moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. it also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all our operational risks and liabilities. the incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. we have incurred remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances. additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, the establishment of stricter state or federal toxicity standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. our expenses include significant costs related to employee and retiree health benefits. with approximately 131,000 employees, including approximately 51,000 in the u.s., our expenses relating to employee health and retiree health benefits are significant. in recent years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. continued increasing health-care costs, legislative or regulatory changes, and volatility in 20 discount rates, as well as changes in other assumptions used to calculate retiree health benefit expenses, may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and pension contributions in future periods. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. these valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. funding requirements for our u.s. pension plans may become more significant. however, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. for a discussion regarding the significant assumptions used to estimate pension expense, including discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, and how our financial statements can be affected by pension plan accounting policies, see critical accounting policies included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. additional tax expense or additional tax exposures could affect our future profitability. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and various non-u.s. jurisdictions. our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent, in part, upon the distribution of income among these different jurisdictions. in 2013, our tax expense represented 26.8 percent of our income before tax. our tax expense includes estimates of tax reserves and reflects other estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company which could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the overall profitability of the company, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information relating to market risk is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption financial instruments . 58risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements we describe many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition, results of operations and in other parts of this report (including this item 1a). such discussions contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. they are based on management assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. we do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. these forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this form 10-k, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. these factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent reports on forms 10-q and 8-k. risk factors our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to the risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. macroeconomic and industry risks industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the markets and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. aerospace operating results of our business units within aerospace are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, as well as changes in customer buying patterns with respect to aftermarket parts, supplier stability, factory transitions and capacity constraints. the operating results of our commercial original equipment and commercial aftermarket business units may be adversely affected by downturns in the global demand for air travel which impacts new aircraft production or the delay or cancellation of new aircraft orders, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft, the retirement of aircraft and global flying hours, which impacts business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates. operating results in our defense and space systems business unit may be affected by the mix of u.s. and foreign government appropriations for defense and space programs. operating results in our transportation systems business unit may be affected by the level of production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and fuel economy, consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket products and delays in launch schedules for new automobile and truck platforms. automation and control solutions operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending and operating expenditures on building and process automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, and inventory levels in distribution channels. performance materials and technologies operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our customers availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, raw material demand and supply volatility, and our ability to maximize our facilities production capacity and minimize downtime. pricing of certain chemical products are driven by 6 raw materials that are correlated to the price of oil, hence revenue could be significantly impacted by volatility in the price of oil. an increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-u.s. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory, foreign exchange and other risks of international operations. our international operations, including u.s. exports, represent more than half of the company sales. risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as embargoes), violations by our employees of anti-corruption laws (despite our efforts to mitigate these risks), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, acts of terrorism, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. instability and uncertainties arising from the global geopolitical environment and the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. operating outside of the united states also exposes us to foreign exchange risk, which we monitor and seek to reduce through hedging activities. however, foreign exchange hedging activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us or successful in eliminating such volatility. finally, we generate significant amounts of cash outside of the united states that is invested with financial and non-financial counterparties. while we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and commitments, a material disruption to the counterparties with whom we transact business could expose honeywell to financial loss. a change in the level of u.s. government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact aerospace defense and space sales and results of operations. a shift in defense or space spending to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations. risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and require cash pension contributions in future periods. changes in discount rates and actual asset returns different than our anticipated asset returns can result in significant non-cash actuarial gains or losses which we record in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and, if applicable, in any quarter in which an interim re-measurement is triggered. with regard to cash pension contributions, funding requirements for our pension plans are largely dependent upon interest rates, actual investment returns on pension assets and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. operational risks raw material price fluctuations, the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability to meet commitments to customers and cause us to incur significant liabilities. the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in pmt (cumene, fluorspar, r240, natural gas, perchloroethylene, sulfur and ethylene) and aerospace (nickel, steel, titanium and other metals). our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices 7 to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. many major components, product equipment items and raw materials, particularly in aerospace, are procured or subcontracted on a single or sole-source basis. although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process and we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be constrained by our suppliers inability to scale production and adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times of volatile demand. our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. failure to increase productivity through sustainable operational improvements, as well as an inability to successfully execute repositioning projects, may reduce our profitability or adversely impact our businesses. our profitability and margin growth are dependent upon our ability to drive sustainable improvements. in addition, we seek productivity and cost savings benefits through repositioning actions and projects, such as consolidation of manufacturing facilities, transitions to cost-competitive regions and product line rationalizations. risks associated with these actions include delays in execution of the planned initiatives, additional unexpected costs, adverse effects on employee morale and the failure to meet operational targets due to employee attrition. we may not realize the full operational or financial benefits we expect, the recognition of these benefits may be delayed and these actions may potentially disrupt our operations. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance in highly competitive markets with acceptable margins. our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring new products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) develop and retain individuals with the requisite technical expertise and understanding of customers needs to develop new technologies and introduce new products. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. we may be unable to successfully execute or effectively integrate acquisitions, and divestitures may not occur as planned. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. in addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve expected synergies, (iii) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions, and (iv) the discovery of unanticipated liabilities or other problems in acquired businesses for which we lack contractual protections, insurance or indemnities or, with regard to divested businesses, claims by purchasers to whom we have provided contractual indemnification. 8 as a supplier of military and other equipment to the u.s. government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the u.s. government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. u.s. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent with the terms of the applicable contract. our contracts with the u.s. government are also subject to government audits that may recommend downward price adjustments and other changes. when appropriate and prudent, we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future. we are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. if, as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental, employment or export laws), honeywell or one of its businesses were found to have violated applicable law, it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. we continue to incur remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances. additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. various federal, state, local and foreign governments regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. in addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, the establishment of stricter state or federal toxicity standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur additional costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology (it) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the company, its products, its customers and/or its third party service providers. while we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the company. we seek to deploy comprehensive measures to prevent, detect, address and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, product software designs which we believe are less susceptible to cyber attacks, continuous monitoring of our it networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems. despite these efforts, cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. cybersecurity incidents aimed at the software imbedded in our products could lead to third party claims that our product failures have caused a similar range of damages to our customers. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. 9 legal and regulatory risks our u.s. and non-u.s. tax liabilities are dependent, in part, upon the distribution of income among various jurisdictions in which we operate. our tax expense includes estimates of tax reserves and reflects other estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company which could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures and various other governmental enforcement initiatives. changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. the sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations including safety, performance and product certification regulations. within aerospace, the operating results of our commercial original equipment and commercial aftermarket business units may be impacted by, among other things, mandates of the federal aviation administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft. our defense and space business unit may be effected by changes in government procurement regulations, while emissions, fuel economy and energy efficiency standards for motor vehicles can impact the transportation systems business unit. within acs, the demand for and cost of providing products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. pmt results of operations can be affected by environmental, safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. we are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, antitrust, import and export matters and environmental, health and safety matters. our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. the incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information relating to market risk is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption financial instruments . 32risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements we describe many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition, results of operations and in other parts of this report (including this item 1a). such discussions contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. they are based on management assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. we do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. these forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this form 10-k, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. these factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent reports on forms 10-q and 8-k. risk factors our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to the principal risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. macroeconomic and industry risks industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the markets and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. aerospace operating results of aerospace are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, as well as changes in customer buying patterns of aftermarket parts, supplier stability, factory transitions and capacity constraints. the operating results of our commercial original equipment and commercial aftermarket business units may be adversely affected by downturns in the global demand for air travel which impacts new aircraft production or the delay or cancellation of new aircraft orders, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft, the retirement of aircraft and global flying hours, which impact business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates. operating results in our defense and space systems business unit may be affected by the mix of u.s. and foreign government appropriations for defense and space programs. operating results in our transportation systems business unit may be affected by the level of production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and fuel economy, consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket products and delays in launch schedules for new automobile and truck platforms. acs operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending and operating expenditures on building and process automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, and inventory levels in distribution channels. pmt operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our customers availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, raw material demand and supply volatility, and our ability to maximize our facilities production capacity and minimize downtime. in particular, the volatility in oil and natural gas prices have and will continue to impact our customers operating levels and capital spending and thus demand for our products and 6 services. pricing of certain chemical products are driven by raw materials that are correlated to the price of oil, hence revenue could be significantly impacted by volatility in the price of oil. an increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-u.s. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory, foreign exchange and other risks of international operations. our international operations, including u.s. exports, represent more than half of the company sales. risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, antitrust regulations, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as embargoes), violations by our employees of anti-corruption laws (despite our efforts to mitigate these risks), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, acts of terrorism, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. instability and uncertainties arising from the global geopolitical environment and the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. operating outside of the united states also exposes us to foreign exchange risk, which we monitor and seek to reduce through hedging activities. however, foreign exchange hedging activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us or successful in eliminating such volatility. finally, we generate significant amounts of cash outside of the united states that is invested with financial and non-financial counterparties. while we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and commitments, a material disruption to the counterparties with whom we transact business could expose honeywell to financial loss. risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and require cash pension contributions in future periods. changes in discount rates and actual asset returns different than our anticipated asset returns can result in significant non-cash actuarial gains or losses which we record in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and, if applicable, in any quarter in which an interim re-measurement is triggered. with regard to cash pension contributions, funding requirements for our pension plans are largely dependent upon interest rates, actual investment returns on pension assets and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. operational risks raw material price fluctuations, the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability to meet commitments to customers and cause us to incur significant liabilities. the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in pmt (cumene, fluorspar, r240, natural gas, perchloroethylene, sulfur and ethylene) and aerospace (nickel, steel, titanium and other metals). our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. many major components, product equipment items and raw materials, particularly in aerospace, are procured or subcontracted on a single or sole-source basis. although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process and we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be 7 constrained by our suppliers inability to scale production and adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times of volatile demand. our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. we may be unable to successfully execute or effectively integrate acquisitions, and divestitures may not occur as planned. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. in addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the failure to integrate multiple acquired businesses into honeywell simultaneously and on schedule and/or to achieve expected synergies, (iii) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions, and (iv) the discovery of unanticipated liabilities or other problems in acquired businesses for which we lack contractual protections, insurance or indemnities or, with regard to divested businesses, claims by purchasers to whom we have provided contractual indemnification. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance in increasingly competitive markets with acceptable margins. our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products and defend our market share against an ever-expanding number of competitors including many new and non- traditional competitors, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (iv) develop, manufacture and bring compelling new products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (v) attract, develop and retain individuals with the requisite technical expertise and understanding of customers needs to develop new technologies and introduce new products. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. failure to increase productivity through sustainable operational improvements, as well as an inability to successfully execute repositioning projects, may reduce our profitability or adversely impact our businesses. our profitability and margin growth are dependent upon our ability to drive sustainable improvements. in addition, we seek productivity and cost savings benefits through repositioning actions and projects, such as consolidation of manufacturing facilities, transitions to cost-competitive regions and product line rationalizations. risks associated with these actions include delays in execution of the planned initiatives, additional unexpected costs and adverse effects on employee morale. we may not realize the full operational or financial benefits we expect, the recognition of these benefits may be delayed and these actions may potentially disrupt our operations. as a supplier of military and other equipment to the u.s. government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the u.s. government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. u.s. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent with the terms of the applicable contract. our contracts with the u.s. government are also subject to government audits that may recommend downward price adjustments and other changes. when appropriate and prudent, we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future. 8 we are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. if, as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental, employment or export laws), honeywell or one of its businesses were found to have violated applicable law, it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. we continue to incur remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances. additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. various federal, state, local and foreign governments regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. in addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, the establishment of stricter state or federal toxicity standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur additional costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology (it) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the company, its products, its customers and/or its third party service providers including cloud providers. our customers, including the u.s. government, are increasingly requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards in our products and we may incur additional costs to comply with such demands. while we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the company. we seek to deploy comprehensive measures to deter, prevent, detect, respond and mitigate these threats (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, product software designs which we believe are less susceptible to cyber attacks, continuous monitoring of our it networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems. despite these efforts, cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. cybersecurity incidents aimed at the software imbedded in our products could lead to third party claims that our product failures have caused a similar range of damages to our customers, and this risk is enhanced by the increasingly connected nature of our products. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include reputational damage, litigation with third parties, fines levied by the federal trade commission, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. 9 legal and regulatory risks our u.s. and non-u.s. tax liabilities are dependent, in part, upon the distribution of income among various jurisdictions in which we operate. our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings (or changes in the interpretation thereof), changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures and various other governmental enforcement initiatives. our tax expense includes estimates of tax reserves and reflects other estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company which could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. changes in tax laws or regulations, including multi- jurisdictional changes enacted in response to the guidelines provided by the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd) to address base erosion and profit shifting, will increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact our provision for income taxes. changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. the sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations including safety, performance and product certification regulations. within aerospace, the operating results of commercial original equipment and commercial aftermarket may be impacted by, among other things, mandates of the federal aviation administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft. our defense and space business unit may be affected by changes in government procurement regulations, while emissions, fuel economy and energy efficiency standards for motor vehicles can impact transportation systems. within acs, the demand for and cost of providing products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. pmt results of operations can be affected by environmental, safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations. growth in all our businesses within emerging markets may be adversely impacted by the inability to acquire and retain qualified employees where local employment law mandates may be restrictive. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. we are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, antitrust, import and export matters and environmental, health and safety matters. our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. the incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. 10 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks information relating to market risks is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption financial instruments . 31risk factors under the caption &ldquo;macroeconomic and industry risks.&rdquo; raw materials the principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available. although we occasionally experience disruption in raw materials supply, we experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials or commodities in 2016. we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials. the costs of certain key raw materials, including r240, fluorspar, copper, ethylene and perchloroethylene in performance materials and technologies and nickel, steel, titanium and other metals in aerospace, are expected to continue to fluctuate. we will continue to attempt to offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. we do not presently anticipate that a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impacts during 2017. patents, trademarks, licenses and distribution rights our segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. in our judgment, our intellectual property rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. we believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any individual patent, trademark or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product to be of material importance in relation to our total business. research and development the company&rsquo;s principal research and development activities are in the u.s., india, europe and china. research and development expense totaled $2,143 million, $1,856 million and $1,892 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014. r&amp;d expense was 5% of sales in each of 2016, 2015 and 2014. customer-sponsored (principally by the u.s. government) r&amp;d activities amounted to an additional $967 million, $998 million and $1,034 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014. 5 environment we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regarding protection of human health and the environment. we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. we are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. it is also possible that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances. among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the u.s. environmental protection agency&rsquo;s national priority list. although there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we do not anticipate having to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole. we do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on the company&rsquo;s business or markets that it serves, nor on its results of operations, capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position or financial standing. we will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area. employees we have approximately 131,000 employees at december 31, 2016, of whom approximately 45,000 are located in the united states. 6 executive officers of the registrant the executive officers of honeywell, listed as follows, are elected annually by the board of directors. there are no family relationships among them. name, age, date first elected an executive officer business experience david m. cote, 64 2002 (a) chairman of the board and chief executive officer since july 2002. darius adamczyk, 51 2014 (a) president and chief operating officer since april 2016. president and chief executive officer performance materials and technologies from april 2014 to april 2016. president of honeywell process solutions from april 2012 to april 2014. president of honeywell scanning &amp; mobility from july 2008 to april 2012. katherine l. adams, 52 2009 senior vice president and general counsel since april 2009. roger fradin, 63 2004 (b) vice chairman since april 2014. president and chief executive officer automation and control solutions from january 2004 to april 2014. rajeev gautam, 64 2016 president and chief executive officer performance materials and technologies since april 2016. president of honeywell uop from january 2009 to april 2016. terrence s. hahn, 50 2013 president and chief executive officer home and building technologies since july 2016. president and chief executive officer transportation systems from may 2013 to july 2016. vice president and general manager of fluorine products from march 2007 to may 2013. mark r. james, 55 2007 senior vice president human resources, procurement and communications since november 2007. andreas c. kramvis, 64 2008 (b) vice chairman since april 2014. president and chief executive officer performance materials and technologies from march 2008 to april 2014. timothy o. mahoney, 60 2009 president and chief executive officer aerospace since september 2009. krishna mikkilineni, 57 2010 senior vice president engineering, operations and information technology since april 2013. senior vice president engineering and operations from april 2010 to april 2013 and president honeywell technology solutions from january 2009 to april 2013. thomas a. szlosek, 53 2014 senior vice president and chief financial officer since april 2014. vice president of corporate finance from april 2013 to april 2014. chief financial officer of automation and control solutions from february 2007 to april 2013. john f. waldron, 41 2016 president and chief executive officer, safety and productivity solutions since july 2016. president of sensing and productivity solutions from july 2015 to july 2016. president of scanning and mobility from april 2012 to july 2015. vice president and general manager of americas scanning and mobility from january 2012 to april 2012. (a) also a director. (b) retiring from honeywell on february 15, 2017. 7 item 1a. risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements we describe many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in item 7. management&rsquo;s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in other parts of this report (including this item 1a). such discussions contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. they are based on management&rsquo;s assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. we do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. these forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this form 10-k, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. these factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent reports on forms 10-q and 8-k. risk factors our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to the principal risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. macroeconomic and industry risks industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the markets and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. aerospace &mdash;operating results of aerospace are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, as well as changes in customer buying patterns of aftermarket parts, supplier stability, factory transitions and capacity constraints. the operating results of our commercial aviation business unit may be adversely affected by downturns in the global demand for air travel which impacts new aircraft production or the delay or cancellation of new aircraft orders, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft, the retirement of aircraft and global flying hours, which impact air transport, regional, business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates. operating results could also be impacted by changes in overall trends related to end market demand for the product portfolio. operating results in our defense and space business unit may be affected by the mix of u.s. and foreign government appropriations for defense and space programs and by compliance risks. results may also be impacted by the potential introduction of counterfeit parts into our global supply chain. operating results in our transportation systems business unit may be affected by the level of production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and fuel economy, consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket products and delays in launch schedules for new automobile and truck platforms. home and building technologies &mdash;operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the level of global residential and commercial construction activity (including retrofits and upgrades), lower capital spending and operating expenditures on building projects, less industrial plant expansion, changes in the competitive landscape including new market entrants and new technologies, and fluctuations in inventory levels in distribution channels. performance materials and technologies &mdash;operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our customers&rsquo; availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, raw material demand and supply volatility, product commoditization, and our ability to maximize our facilities&rsquo; production capacity and minimize downtime. in particular, the volatility in oil and natural gas prices have and will continue to impact our customers&rsquo; operating levels and capital spending and thus demand for our products and services. 8 safety and productivity solutions &mdash;operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the level of global capital spending and operating expenditures, including in the oil and gas industry, reduced investments in process automation, safety monitoring, and plant capacity utilization initiatives, fluctuations in retail markets, lower customer demand due to the failure to anticipate and respond to overall trends related to end market demand, changes in the competitive landscape including new market entrants and technology that may lead to product commoditization, and adverse industry economic conditions, all of which could result in lower market share, reduced selling prices and lower margins. an increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-u.s. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory, foreign exchange and other risks of international operations. our international operations, including u.s. exports, represent more than half of the company&rsquo;s sales. risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, antitrust regulations, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as embargoes), violations by our employees of anti-corruption laws (despite our efforts to mitigate these risks), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, acts of terrorism, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. instability and uncertainties arising from the global geopolitical environment, including the united kingdom referendum in favor of exiting the european union and the evolving u.s. political, regulatory and economic landscape following the 2016 elections, and the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. operating outside of the united states also exposes us to foreign exchange risk, which we monitor and seek to reduce through hedging activities. however, foreign exchange hedging activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us or be successful in eliminating such volatility. finally, we generate significant amounts of cash outside of the united states that is invested with financial and non-financial counterparties. while we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and commitments, a material disruption to the counterparties with whom we transact business could expose honeywell to financial loss. risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and require cash pension contributions in future periods. changes in discount rates and actual asset returns different than our anticipated asset returns can result in significant non-cash actuarial gains or losses which we record in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and, if applicable, in any quarter in which an interim re-measurement is triggered. with regard to cash pension contributions, funding requirements for our pension plans are largely dependent upon interest rates, actual investment returns on pension assets and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. operational risks raw material price fluctuations, the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability to meet commitments to customers and cause us to incur significant liabilities. the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in performance materials and technologies (r240, fluorspar, copper, ethylene and perchloroethylene) and in aerospace (nickel, steel, titanium and other metals). our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. many major components, product equipment items and raw materials, particularly in aerospace, are procured or subcontracted on a single or sole-source basis. although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process and we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be constrained by our suppliers&rsquo; inability to scale 9 production and adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times of volatile demand. our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. we may be unable to successfully execute or effectively integrate acquisitions, and divestitures may not occur as planned. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all, and during integration we may discover cybersecurity and compliance issues. in addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns including risk of impairment; (ii) the failure to integrate multiple acquired businesses into honeywell simultaneously and on schedule and/or to achieve expected synergies; (iii) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions; and (iv) the discovery of unanticipated liabilities, labor relations difficulties or other problems in acquired businesses for which we lack contractual protections, insurance or indemnities, or with regard to divested businesses, claims by purchasers to whom we have provided contractual indemnification. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance in increasingly competitive markets with acceptable margins. our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) defend our market share against an ever-expanding number of competitors including many new and non-traditional competitors, (iv) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (v) develop, manufacture and bring compelling new products to market quickly and cost-effectively, and (vi) attract, develop and retain individuals with the requisite technical expertise and understanding of customers&rsquo; needs to develop new technologies and introduce new products. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. failure to increase productivity through sustainable operational improvements, as well as an inability to successfully execute repositioning projects or to effectively manage our workforce, may reduce our profitability or adversely impact our businesses. our profitability and margin growth are dependent upon our ability to drive sustainable improvements. in addition, we seek productivity and cost savings benefits through repositioning actions and projects, such as consolidation of manufacturing facilities, transitions to cost-competitive regions and product line rationalizations. risks associated with these actions include delays in execution of the planned initiatives, additional unexpected costs, realization of fewer than estimated productivity improvements and adverse effects on employee morale. we may not realize the full operational or financial benefits we expect, the recognition of these benefits may be delayed and these actions may potentially disrupt our operations. in addition, organizational changes, attrition, labor relations difficulties, or workforce stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. as a supplier to the u.s. government, we are subject to unique risks, such as the right of the u.s. government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. u.s. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent with the terms of the applicable contract. our contracts with the u.s. government are also subject to government audits that may recommend downward price adjustments and other changes. when appropriate and prudent, we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future. we are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government 10 procurement regulations. if, as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including investigation of violations of certain environmental, employment or export laws), honeywell or one of its businesses were found to have violated applicable law, then it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. we continue to incur remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances. additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. various federal, state, local and foreign governments regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. in addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, the establishment of stricter state or federal toxicity standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur additional costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology (it) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the company, its products, its customers and/or its third party service providers including cloud providers. our customers, including the u.s. government, are increasingly requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards in our products, and we may incur additional costs to comply with such demands. while we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the company. we seek to deploy comprehensive measures to deter, prevent, detect, respond to and mitigate these threats, including identity and access controls, data protection, vulnerability assessments, product software designs which we believe are less susceptible to cyber attacks, continuous monitoring of our it networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems. despite these efforts, cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. cybersecurity incidents aimed at the software imbedded in our products could lead to third party claims that our product failures have caused a similar range of damages to our customers, and this risk is enhanced by the increasingly connected nature of our products. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include financial loss, reputational damage, litigation with third parties, theft of intellectual property, fines levied by the federal trade commission, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs due to the increasing sophistication and proliferation of threats, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. legal and regulatory risks our u.s. and non-u.s. tax liabilities are dependent, in part, upon the distribution of income among various jurisdictions in which we operate. our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings (or changes in the interpretation thereof), changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures and various other governmental enforcement initiatives. our tax expense includes estimates of tax reserves and reflects other estimates and assumptions, including assessments 11 of future earnings of the company which could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. changes in tax laws or regulations, including multi-jurisdictional changes enacted in response to the guidelines provided by the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd) to address base erosion and profit shifting, and potential comprehensive u.s. tax reform which, among other things, might change certain u.s. tax rules impacting the way u.s based multinationals are taxed, will increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact our provision for income taxes. changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. the sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations including safety, performance and product certification regulations. within aerospace, the operating results of commercial original equipment and commercial aftermarket may be impacted by, among other things, mandates of the federal aviation administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft. our defense and space business unit may be affected by changes in government procurement regulations, while emissions, fuel economy and energy efficiency standards for motor vehicles can impact transportation systems. within home and building technologies, the demand for and cost of providing products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. performance materials and technologies&rsquo; results of operations can be affected by environmental, safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations. growth in all our businesses within emerging markets may be adversely impacted by the inability to acquire and retain qualified employees where local employment law mandates may be restrictive. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. we are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, antitrust, import and export, and environmental, health and safety matters. our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. the incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks information relating to market risks is included in item 7. management&rsquo;s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption &ldquo;financial instruments&rdquo;. 33risk factors under the caption macroeconomic and industry risks. raw materials the principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available. although we occasionally experience disruption in raw materials supply, we experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials or commodities in 2017. we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials. the costs of certain key raw materials, including r240, fluorspar, copper, ethylene and perchloroethylene in performance materials and technologies and nickel, steel, titanium and other metals in aerospace, are expected to continue to fluctuate. we will continue to attempt to offset raw 3 material cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. we do not presently anticipate that a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impacts during 2018. patents, trademarks, licenses and distribution rights our segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. in our judgment, our intellectual property rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. we believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any individual patent, trademark or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product to be of material importance in relation to our total business. research and development the company principal research and development activities are in the u.s., india, europe, and china. research and development expense totaled $1,835 million, $1,864 million and $1,856 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015. r&amp;d expense was 5% of sales in each of 2017, 2016 and 2015. customer-sponsored (principally by the u.s. government) r&amp;d activities amounted to an additional $876 million, $967 million and $998 million in 2017, 2016 and 2015. environment we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regarding protection of human health and the environment. we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. we are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacturing, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. it is also possible that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances. among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the u.s. environmental protection agency national priority list. although there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we do not anticipate having to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole. we do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on the company business or markets that it serves, nor on its results of operations, capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position or financial standing. we will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area. employees we have approximately 131,000 employees at december 31, 2017, of whom approximately 46,000 are located in the united states. 4 executive officers of the registrant the executive officers of honeywell, listed as follows, are elected annually by the board of directors. there are no family relationships among them. name, age, date first elected an executive officer business experience darius adamczyk, 52 2017(a) president and chief executive officer since april 2017. chief operating officer since from april 2016 to march 2017. president and chief executive officer performance materials and technologies from april 2014 to april 2016. president of honeywell process solutions from april 2012 to april 2014. president of honeywell scanning &amp; mobility from july 2008 to april 2012. rajeev gautam, 65 2016 president and chief executive officer performance materials and technologies since april 2016. president of honeywell uop from january 2009 to april 2016. mark r. james, 56 2007 senior vice president human resources, procurement and communications since november 2007. anne t. madden, 53 2017 senior vice president and general counsel since october 2017. vice president of corporate development and global m&amp;a from january 2002 to october 2017. timothy o. mahoney, 61 2009 president and chief executive officer aerospace since september 2009. gary s. michel, 55 2017 president and chief executive officer home and building technologies since october 2017. krishna mikkilineni, 58 2010 senior vice president engineering, operations and information technology since april 2013. senior vice president engineering and operations from april 2010 to april 2013 and president honeywell technology solutions from january 2009 to april 2013. thomas a. szlosek, 54 2014 senior vice president and chief financial officer since april 2014. vice president of corporate finance from april 2013 to april 2014. chief financial officer of automation and control solutions from february 2007 to april 2013. john f. waldron, 42 2016 president and chief executive officer, safety and productivity solutions since july 2016. president of sensing and productivity solutions from july 2015 to july 2016. president of scanning and mobility from april 2012 to july 2015. vice president and general manager of americas scanning and mobility from january 2012 to april 2012. (a) also a director. item 1a. risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements we describe many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in other parts of this report (including this item 1a). such discussions contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. they 5 are based on management assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements, including with respect to any changes in or abandonment of the proposed spin-offs. we do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. these forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this form 10-k, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. these factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent reports on forms 10-q and 8-k. risk factors our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to the principal risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. macroeconomic and industry risks industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the markets and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. aerospace operating results of aerospace are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, as well as changes in customer buying patterns of aftermarket parts, supplier stability, factory transitions and capacity constraints. the operating results of our commercial aviation business unit may be adversely affected by downturns in the global demand for air travel which impacts new aircraft production or the delay or cancellation of new aircraft orders, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft, the retirement of aircraft and global flying hours, which impact air transport, regional, business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates. operating results could also be impacted by changes in overall trends related to end market demand for the product portfolio, as well as, new entrants and non-traditional players entering the market. operating results in our defense and space business unit may be affected by the mix of u.s. and foreign government appropriations for defense and space programs and by compliance risks. results may also be impacted by the potential introduction of counterfeit parts into our global supply chain. operating results in our transportation systems business unit may be affected by the level of production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, regulatory changes regarding automobile and truck emissions and fuel economy, growing importance of automotive electrification, consumer demand and spending for automotive aftermarket products and delays in launch schedules for new automobile and truck platforms. home and building technologies operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the level of global residential and commercial construction activity (including retrofits and upgrades), lower capital spending and operating expenditures on building projects, less industrial plant expansion, changes in the competitive landscape including new market entrants and new technologies, and fluctuations in inventory levels in distribution channels. performance materials and technologies operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our customers availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, raw material demand and supply volatility, product commoditization, and our ability to maximize our facilities production capacity and minimize downtime. in particular, the volatility in oil and natural gas prices have and will continue to impact our customers operating levels and capital spending and thus demand for our products and services. safety and productivity solutions operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the level of global capital spending and operating expenditures, including in the 6 oil and gas industry, reduced investments in process automation, safety monitoring, and plant capacity utilization initiatives, fluctuations in retail markets, lower customer demand due to the failure to anticipate and respond to overall trends related to end market demand, changes in the competitive landscape including new market entrants and technology that may lead to product commoditization, and adverse industry economic conditions, all of which could result in lower market share, reduced selling prices and lower margins. an increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-u.s. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory, foreign exchange and other risks of international operations. our international operations, including u.s. exports, represent more than half of the company sales. risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, antitrust regulations, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as sanctions and embargoes), violations by our employees of anti-corruption laws (despite our efforts to mitigate these risks), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, acts of terrorism, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. instability and uncertainties arising from the global geopolitical environment, including the united kingdom referendum in favor of exiting the european union and the evolving international and domestic political, regulatory and economic landscape, the potential for changes in global trade policies including sanctions and trade barriers, trends such as populism, economic nationalism and negative sentiment toward multinational companies, and the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. operating outside of the united states also exposes us to foreign exchange risk, which we monitor and seek to reduce through hedging activities. however, foreign exchange hedging activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us or be successful in eliminating such volatility. finally, we generate significant amounts of cash outside of the united states that is invested with financial and non-financial counterparties. while we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and commitments, a material disruption to the counterparties with whom we transact business could expose honeywell to financial loss. risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and require cash pension contributions in future periods. changes in discount rates and actual asset returns different than our anticipated asset returns can result in significant non-cash actuarial gains or losses which we record in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and, if applicable, in any quarter in which an interim re-measurement is triggered. with regard to cash pension contributions, funding requirements for our pension plans are largely dependent upon interest rates, actual investment returns on pension assets and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. operational risks raw material price fluctuations, the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability to meet commitments to customers and cause us to incur significant liabilities. the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in performance materials and technologies (r240, fluorspar, copper, ethylene and perchloroethylene) and in 7 aerospace (nickel, steel, titanium and other metals). our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. many major components, product equipment items and raw materials, particularly in aerospace, are procured or subcontracted on a single or sole-source basis. although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process and we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be constrained by our suppliers inability to scale production and adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times of volatile demand. our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. we may be unable to successfully execute or effectively integrate acquisitions, and divestitures may not occur as planned. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all, and during integration we may discover cybersecurity and compliance issues. in addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, including risk of impairment; (ii) the failure to integrate multiple acquired businesses into honeywell simultaneously and on schedule and/or to achieve expected synergies; (iii) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions; and (iv) the discovery of unanticipated liabilities, labor relations difficulties or other problems in acquired businesses for which we lack contractual protections, insurance or indemnities, or with regard to divested businesses, claims by purchasers to whom we have provided contractual indemnification. the proposed spin-offs of our homes and global distribution business and of our transportation systems business into two stand-alone, publicly-traded companies are each contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline, or at all, and may not achieve the intended benefits. on october 10, 2017, the company announced its intention to separately spin-off our homes and global distribution business, which is part of our home and building technologies segment, and our transportation systems business, which is part of our aerospace segment, into two stand-alone, publicly-traded companies. completion of each proposed spin-off is subject to readiness of each spin-off to operate as an independent public company, finalization of the financial statements of the spun-off business, assurance that the separation will be tax-free to our shareowners for u.s. federal income tax purposes, finalization of the capital structure of the three corporations, the effectiveness of appropriate filings with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, final approval of the board of directors, and other customary matters. each proposed spin-off is complex in nature, and may be affected by unanticipated developments, credit and equity markets, or changes in market conditions. these or other unanticipated developments could delay or prevent the proposed spin-offs or cause the proposed spin-offs to occur on terms or conditions that are less favorable than anticipated, including without limitation, the failure to qualify as tax-free to our shareowners, and the inability of the two spun-off companies to incur sufficient indebtedness to allow for a distribution to honeywell of proceeds concurrently with the consummation of the spin-offs or to make ongoing cash contributions towards the satisfaction of certain of our legacy asbestos and environmental remediation liabilities. furthermore, if the spin-offs are completed, we cannot assure you that each will be successful in meeting its objectives. there is the potential for business disruption and significant separation costs. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or the price of our common stock. 8 our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance in increasingly competitive markets with acceptable margins. our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify and evolve with emerging technological and broader industry trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) defend our market share against an ever-expanding number of competitors including many new and non-traditional competitors, (iv) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (v) develop, manufacture and bring compelling new products to market quickly and cost-effectively, (vi) monitor disruptive technologies and business models, (vii) achieve sufficient return on investment for new products introduced based on capital expenditures and research and development spending, (viii) respond to changes in overall trends related to end market demand, and (x) attract, develop and retain individuals with the requisite technical expertise and understanding of customers needs to develop new technologies and introduce new products. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. failure to increase productivity through sustainable operational improvements, as well as an inability to successfully execute repositioning projects or to effectively manage our workforce, may reduce our profitability or adversely impact our businesses. our profitability and margin growth are dependent upon our ability to drive sustainable improvements. in addition, we seek productivity and cost savings benefits through repositioning actions and projects, such as consolidation of manufacturing facilities, transitions to cost-competitive regions and product line rationalizations. risks associated with these actions include delays in execution of the planned initiatives, additional unexpected costs, realization of fewer than estimated productivity improvements and adverse effects on employee morale. we may not realize the full operational or financial benefits we expect, the recognition of these benefits may be delayed and these actions may potentially disrupt our operations. in addition, organizational changes, attrition, labor relations difficulties, or workforce stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. as a supplier to the u.s. government, we are subject to unique risks, such as the right of the u.s. government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. u.s. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent with the terms of the applicable contract. our contracts with the u.s. government are also subject to government audits that may recommend downward price adjustments and other changes. when appropriate and prudent, we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future. we are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. if, as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including investigation of violations of certain environmental, employment or export laws), honeywell or one of its businesses were found to have violated applicable law, then it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to claims of 9 personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. we continue to incur remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances. additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. various federal, state, local and foreign governments regulate the discharge of materials into the environment and can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. in addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, the establishment of stricter state or federal toxicity standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur additional costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology (it) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the company, its products, its customers and/or its third party service providers, including cloud providers. our customers, including the u.s. government, are increasingly requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards in our products, and we may incur additional costs to comply with such demands. while we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the company. we seek to deploy comprehensive measures to deter, prevent, detect, respond to and mitigate these threats, including identity and access controls, data protection, vulnerability assessments, product software designs which we believe are less susceptible to cyber attacks, continuous monitoring of our it networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems. despite these efforts, cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. cybersecurity incidents aimed at the software imbedded in our products could lead to third party claims that our product failures have caused a similar range of damages to our customers, and this risk is enhanced by the increasingly connected nature of our products. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include financial loss, reputational damage, litigation with third parties, theft of intellectual property, fines levied by the federal trade commission, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs due to the increasing sophistication and proliferation of threats, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. data privacy, identity protection, and information security may require significant resources and presents certain risks. we collect, store, have access to and otherwise process certain confidential or sensitive data, including proprietary business information, personal data and other information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and/or customer-imposed controls. despite our efforts to protect such data, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, or employee errors that could potentially lead to the compromising of such data, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. in addition, we operate in an environment in which there are different and potentially conflicting data privacy laws in effect in the various u.s. states and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and we must understand and comply with each law and standard in each of these jurisdictions while ensuring the data is secure. government enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt the 10 regular operation of our business, and violations of data privacy laws can result in fines, reputational damage and civil lawsuits, any of which may adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. a material disruption of our operations, particularly at our manufacturing facilities or within our information technology infrastructure, could adversely affect our business. our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to natural disasters including hurricanes and floods, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, equipment failures, sabotage, adverse weather conditions, public health crises, labor disputes, critical supply failure, inaccurate downtime forecast, political disruption, and other reasons, which can result in undesirable consequences, including financial losses and damaged relationships with customers. we employ information technology systems and networks to support the business and rely on them to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. disruptions to our information technology infrastructure from system failures, shutdowns, power outages, telecommunication or utility failures, and other events, including disruptions at our cloud computing, server, systems and other third party it service providers, could interfere with our operations, interrupt production and shipments, damage customer and business partner relationships, and negatively impact our reputation. legal and regulatory risks our u.s. and non-u.s. tax liabilities are dependent, in part, upon the distribution of income among various jurisdictions in which we operate. our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings (or changes in the interpretation thereof), changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures and various other governmental enforcement initiatives. our tax expense includes estimates of tax reserves and reflects other estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company which could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. changes in tax laws or regulations, including further regulatory developments arising from u.s. tax reform legislation as well as multi-jurisdictional changes enacted in response to the action items provided by the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd), will increase tax uncertainty and impact our provision for income taxes. changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. the sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations including safety, performance and product certification regulations. within aerospace, the operating results of commercial original equipment and commercial aftermarket may be impacted by, among other things, mandates of the federal aviation administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft. our defense and space business unit may be affected by changes in government procurement regulations, while emissions, fuel economy and energy efficiency standards for motor vehicles can impact transportation systems. within home and building technologies, the demand for and cost of providing products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. performance materials and technologies results of operations can be impacted by environmental standards, regulations, and judicial determinations. growth in all our businesses within emerging markets may be adversely impacted by the inability to acquire and retain qualified employees where local employment law mandates may be restrictive. noncompliance with legislation and regulations can result in fines and penalties. 11 we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. we are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, antitrust, import and export, and environmental, health and safety matters. our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. the incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks information relating to market risks is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption financial instruments . 35risk factors under the caption macroeconomic and industry risks. raw materials the principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available. although we occasionally experience disruption in raw materials supply, we experienced no significant problems in the purchase of key raw materials or commodities in 2018. we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials. the costs of certain key raw materials, including r240, copper, fluorspar, tungsten salts, ethylene, and perchloroethylene in performance materials and technologies and nickel, steel, titanium and other metals in aerospace, are expected to continue to fluctuate. we will continue to attempt to offset raw material cost increases with formula or long-term supply agreements, price increases and hedging activities where feasible. we do not presently anticipate that a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impacts during 2019. 3 patents, trademarks, licenses and distribution rights our segments are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. in our judgment, our intellectual property rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. we believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any individual patent, trademark or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product to be of material importance in relation to our total business. environment we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regarding protection of human health and the environment. we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. we are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacturing, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous by one or more regulatory agencies. we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. it is also possible that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances. among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with current and former operating sites and various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the u.s. environmental protection agency national priority list. although there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we do not anticipate having to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole. we do not believe that existing or pending climate change legislation, regulation, or international treaties or accords are reasonably likely to have a material effect in the foreseeable future on the company business or markets that it serves, nor on its results of operations, capital expenditures, earnings, competitive position or financial standing. we will continue to monitor emerging developments in this area. employees we have approximately 114,000 employees at december 31, 2018, of whom approximately 44,000 are located in the united states. 4 executive officers of the registrant the executive officers of honeywell, listed as follows, are elected annually by the board of directors. there are no family relationships among them. name, age, date first elected an executive officer business experience darius adamczyk, 53 2017 (a) chairman of the board and chief executive officer since april 2018. president and chief executive officer from april 2017 to april 2018. chief operating officer from april 2016 to march 2017. president and chief executive officer performance materials and technologies from april 2014 to april 2016. president of honeywell process solutions from april 2012 to april 2014. que thanh dallara, 45 2018 president and chief executive officer connected enterprise since october 2018. vice president and chief commercial officer from january 2017 to october 2018. rajeev gautam, 66 2016 president and chief executive officer performance materials and technologies since april 2016. president of honeywell uop from january 2009 to april 2016. mark r. james, 57 2007 senior vice president human resources, security and communications since november 2007. vimal kapur, 53 2018 president and chief executive officer honeywell building technologies since may 2018. president of honeywell process solutions from 2014 to may 2018. gregory p. lewis, 51 2018 senior vice president and chief financial officer since august 2018. vice president of enterprise information management from october 2016 to april 2018, prior to being named vice president, corporate finance in may 2018. chief financial officer of automation and control solutions from april 2013 to september 2016. anne t. madden, 54 2017 senior vice president and general counsel since october 2017. also corporate secretary since february 2018. vice president of corporate development and global head of m&amp;a from january 2002 to october 2017. timothy o. mahoney, 62 2009 president and chief executive officer aerospace since september 2009. krishna mikkilineni, 59 2010 (b) senior vice president engineering and information technology since april 2013. john f. waldron, 43 2016 president and chief executive officer, safety and productivity solutions since july 2016. president of sensing and productivity solutions from july 2015 to july 2016. president of scanning and mobility from april 2012 to july 2015. (a) also a director. (b) mr. mikkilineni will retire from the company effective april 30, 2019. item 1a. risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements we describe many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in other parts of this report (including this item 1a). such discussions contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. 5 forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. they are based on management assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current economic and industry conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. we do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. these forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this form 10-k, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. these factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent reports on forms 10-q and 8-k. risk factors our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to the principal risks and uncertainties set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. macroeconomic and industry risks industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the markets and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. aerospace operating results of aerospace are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, as well as changes in customer buying patterns of aftermarket parts, supplier stability, factory transitions and global supply chain capacity constraints that may lead to shortages of crucial components. the operating results of our commercial aviation business unit may be adversely affected by downturns in the global demand for air travel which impacts new aircraft production or the delay or cancellation of new aircraft orders, delays in launch schedules for new aircraft, the retirement of aircraft and global flying hours, which impact air transport, regional, business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates. operating results could also be impacted by changes in overall trends related to end market demand for the product portfolio, as well as, new entrants and non-traditional players entering the market. operating results in our defense and space business unit may be affected by the mix of u.s. and foreign government appropriations for defense and space programs and by compliance risks. results may also be impacted by the potential introduction of counterfeit parts into our global supply chain. honeywell building technologies operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the level of global commercial construction activity (including retrofits and upgrades), lower capital spending and operating expenditures on building projects, less industrial plant expansion, changes in the competitive landscape including new market entrants and new technologies, and fluctuations in inventory levels in distribution channels. performance materials and technologies operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining, petrochemical and semiconductor plants, our customers availability of capital for refinery construction and expansion, raw material demand and supply volatility, product commoditization, and our ability to maximize our facilities production capacity and minimize downtime. in particular, the volatility in oil and natural gas prices have and will continue to impact our customers operating levels and capital spending and thus demand for our products and services. safety and productivity solutions operating results may be adversely impacted by downturns in the level of global capital spending and operating expenditures, including in the oil and gas industry, reduced investments in process automation, safety monitoring, and plant capacity utilization initiatives, fluctuations in retail markets, lower customer demand due to the failure to anticipate and respond to overall trends related to end market demand, changes in the 6 competitive landscape including new market entrants and technology that may lead to product commoditization, and adverse industry economic conditions, all of which could result in lower market share, reduced selling prices and lower margins. an increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-u.s. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory, foreign exchange and other risks of international operations. our international operations, including u.s. exports, represent more than half of the company sales. risks related to international operations include exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, antitrust regulations, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import, export and other trade restrictions (such as sanctions and embargoes), violations by our employees of anti-corruption laws (despite our efforts to mitigate these risks), changes in regulations regarding transactions with state-owned enterprises, nationalization of private enterprises, acts of terrorism, and our ability to hire and maintain qualified staff and maintain the safety of our employees in these regions. instability and uncertainties arising from the global geopolitical environment, and the evolving international and domestic political, regulatory and economic landscape, the potential for changes in global trade policies including sanctions and trade barriers, trends such as populism, economic nationalism and negative sentiment toward multinational companies, and the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. while it is currently not known what the final outcome and full terms of the united kingdom future relationship with the european union will be, it is possible that there will be greater restrictions on imports and exports between the united kingdom and other countries, including the united states, increased tariffs on u.k. imports and exports, and increased regulatory complexities. existing free trade laws and regulations, such as the north american free trade agreement, or any successor agreement, provide certain beneficial duties and tariffs for qualifying imports and exports. changes in laws or policies governing the terms of foreign trade, and in particular increased trade restrictions, tariffs or taxes on imports from countries where we manufacture products or from where we import products or raw materials, either directly or through our suppliers, could have an impact on our competitive position and financial results. operating outside of the united states also exposes us to foreign exchange risk, which we monitor and seek to reduce through hedging activities. however, foreign exchange hedging activities bear a financial cost and may not always be available to us or be successful in eliminating such volatility. finally, we generate significant amounts of cash outside of the united states that is invested with financial and non-financial counterparties. while we employ comprehensive controls regarding global cash management to guard against cash or investment loss and to ensure our ability to fund our operations and commitments, a material disruption to the counterparties with whom we transact business could expose honeywell to financial loss. risks related to our defined benefit pension plans may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flow. significant changes in actual investment return on pension assets, discount rates, and other factors could adversely affect our results of operations and require cash pension contributions in future periods. changes in discount rates and actual asset returns different than our anticipated asset returns can result in significant non-cash actuarial gains or losses which we record in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, and, if applicable, in any quarter in which an interim re-measurement is triggered. with regard to cash pension contributions, funding requirements for our pension plans are largely dependent upon interest rates, actual investment returns on pension assets and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension funding obligations. 7 operational risks raw material price fluctuations, the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements, or catastrophic events can increase the cost of our products and services, impact our ability to meet commitments to customers and cause us to incur significant liabilities. the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in performance materials and technologies (r240, copper, fluorspar, tungsten salts, ethylene, and perchloroethylene) and in aerospace (nickel, steel, titanium and other metals). our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, formula or long-term fixed price contracts with suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our results of operations. many major components, product equipment items and raw materials, particularly in aerospace, are procured or subcontracted on a single or sole-source basis. although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process and we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. our ability to manage inventory and meet delivery requirements may be constrained by our suppliers inability to scale production and adjust delivery of long-lead time products during times of volatile demand. our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. we may be unable to successfully execute or effectively integrate acquisitions, and divestitures may not occur as planned. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis, or at all, and during integration we may discover cybersecurity and compliance issues. in addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, including risk of impairment; (ii) the failure to integrate multiple acquired businesses into honeywell simultaneously and on schedule and/or to achieve expected synergies; (iii) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions; (iv) the discovery of unanticipated liabilities, labor relations difficulties or other problems in acquired businesses for which we lack contractual protections, insurance or indemnities, or with regard to divested businesses, claims by purchasers to whom we have provided contractual indemnification and (v) the inability to collect on the indemnification and reimbursement agreements entered into with our spin-offs, garrett motion inc. and resideo technologies, inc. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies and introduce new products that achieve market acceptance in increasingly competitive markets with acceptable margins. our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify and evolve with emerging technological and broader industry trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) defend our market share against an ever-expanding number of competitors including many new and non-traditional competitors, (iv) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors and prevent commoditization of our products, (v) develop, manufacture and bring compelling new products to market quickly and cost-effectively, (vi) monitor disruptive technologies and business models, (vii) achieve sufficient return on investment for new products introduced based on capital expenditures and research and development spending, (viii) respond to changes in overall trends related to end market demand, and (x) attract, develop and retain individuals with the requisite technical expertise and understanding of customers needs to develop new technologies and introduce new products. competitors may also develop after-market services and parts for our products which attract customers and adversely affect our return on investment for new products. 8 the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance due to more attractive offerings by our competitors or the failure to address any of the above factors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. failure to increase productivity through sustainable operational improvements, as well as an inability to successfully execute repositioning projects or to effectively manage our workforce, may reduce our profitability or adversely impact our businesses. our profitability and margin growth are dependent upon our ability to drive sustainable improvements. in addition, we seek productivity and cost savings benefits through repositioning actions and projects, such as consolidation of manufacturing facilities, transitions to cost-competitive regions and product line rationalizations. risks associated with these actions include delays in execution of the planned initiatives, additional unexpected costs, realization of fewer than estimated productivity improvements and adverse effects on employee morale. we may not realize the full operational or financial benefits we expect, the recognition of these benefits may be delayed and these actions may potentially disrupt our operations. in addition, organizational changes, increased attrition, failure to create and implement a succession plan for key company positions, not retaining key talent, inability to attract new employees with unique skills, labor relations difficulties, or workforce stoppage could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial position and results of operations. as a supplier to the u.s. government, we are subject to unique risks, such as the right of the u.s. government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. u.s. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform consistent with the terms of the applicable contract. our contracts with the u.s. government are also subject to government audits that may recommend downward price adjustments and other changes. when appropriate and prudent, we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in the past and may do so in the future. we are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. if, as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including investigation of violations of certain environmental, employment or export laws), honeywell or one of its businesses were found to have violated applicable law, then it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts, suspended from contract performance pending the completion of legal proceedings and/or have its export privileges suspended. our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to claims of personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. we continue to incur remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing hazardous substances. additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. various federal, state, local and foreign governments regulate the discharge of materials into the environment, or the use of or communications respecting certain materials in our products, and can impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require injunctive relief measures, including installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases, or limiting access of our products to markets, among others. in addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, the establishment of stricter toxicity standards with respect to certain contaminants, or the imposition of new clean-up 9 requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur additional costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. cybersecurity incidents could disrupt business operations, result in the loss of critical and confidential information, and adversely impact our reputation and results of operations. global cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology (it) systems to sophisticated and targeted measures known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the company, its products, its customers and/or its third party service providers, including cloud providers. our customers, including the u.s. government, are increasingly requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards in our products, and we may incur additional costs to comply with such demands. while we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, none of them to date have been material to the company. we seek to deploy comprehensive measures to deter, prevent, detect, respond to and mitigate these threats, including identity and access controls, data protection, vulnerability assessments, product software designs which we believe are less susceptible to cyber attacks, continuous monitoring of our it networks and systems and maintenance of backup and protective systems. despite these efforts, cybersecurity incidents, depending on their nature and scope, could potentially result in the misappropriation, destruction, corruption or unavailability of critical data and confidential or proprietary information (our own or that of third parties) and the disruption of business operations. cybersecurity incidents aimed at the software imbedded in our products could lead to third party claims that our product failures have caused a similar range of damages to our customers, and this risk is enhanced by the increasingly connected nature of our products. the potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include financial loss, reputational damage, litigation with third parties, theft of intellectual property, fines levied by the federal trade commission, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs due to the increasing sophistication and proliferation of threats, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. data privacy, identity protection, and information security may require significant resources and presents certain risks. we collect, store, have access to and otherwise process certain confidential or sensitive data, including proprietary business information, personal data or other information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations and/or customer-imposed controls. despite our efforts to protect such data, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced or lost data, programming errors, or employee errors that could potentially lead to the compromising of such data, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. in addition, we operate in an environment in which there are different and potentially conflicting data privacy laws in effect in the various u.s. states and foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and we must understand and comply with each law and standard in each of these jurisdictions while ensuring the data is secure. for example, the state of california recently passed legislation granting residents certain new data privacy rights and regulating the security of internet of things devices, which will go into effect in january 2020; european laws require us to have an approved legal mechanism to transfer personal data out of europe; the european union general data protection regulation, which took effect in may 2018, superseded prior european union data protection legislation and imposes more stringent requirements in how we collect and process personal data and provides for significantly greater penalties for noncompliance; and several other countries have passed laws that require personal data relating to their citizens to be maintained on local servers and impose additional data transfer restrictions. government enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt the regular operation of our business, and violations of data privacy laws can result in fines, reputational damage and civil lawsuits, any of which may adversely affect our business, reputation and financial statements. 10 a material disruption of our operations, particularly at our manufacturing facilities or within our information technology infrastructure, could adversely affect our business. our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to natural disasters including hurricanes and floods, power outages, fires, explosions, terrorism, equipment failures, sabotage, adverse weather conditions, public health crises, labor disputes, critical supply failure, inaccurate downtime forecast, political disruption, and other reasons, which can result in undesirable consequences, including financial losses and damaged relationships with customers. we employ information technology systems and networks to support the business and rely on them to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. disruptions to our information technology infrastructure from system failures, shutdowns, power outages, telecommunication or utility failures, and other events, including disruptions at our cloud computing, server, systems and other third party it service providers, could interfere with our operations, interrupt production and shipments, damage customer and business partner relationships, and negatively impact our reputation. legal and regulatory risks our u.s. and non-u.s. tax liabilities are dependent, in part, upon the distribution of income among various jurisdictions in which we operate. our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax laws, regulations and judicial rulings (or changes in the interpretation thereof), potential expansion of taxation on digital services, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the amount of earnings permanently reinvested offshore, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures and various other governmental enforcement initiatives. our tax expense includes estimates of tax reserves and reflects other estimates and assumptions, including assessments of future earnings of the company which could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. changes in tax laws or regulations, including further regulatory developments arising from u.s. tax reform legislation as well as multi-jurisdictional changes enacted in response to the action items provided by the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd), will increase tax uncertainty and impact our provision for income taxes. changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. the sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations including safety, performance and product certification regulations. within aerospace, the operating results of commercial original equipment and commercial aftermarket may be impacted by, among other things, mandates of the federal aviation administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft. our defense and space business unit may be affected by changes in government procurement regulations. within honeywell building technologies, the demand for and cost of providing products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care, environmental and energy efficiency standards and regulations. performance materials and technologies results of operations can be impacted by environmental standards, regulations, and judicial determinations . growth in all our businesses within emerging markets may be adversely impacted by the inability to acquire and retain qualified employees where local employment law mandates may be restrictive. noncompliance with legislation and regulations can result in fines and penalties. increased public awareness and concern regarding global climate change may result in more international, regional and/or federal requirements to reduce or mitigate global warming and these regulations could mandate even more restrictive standards, such as stricter limits on greenhouse gas emissions, than the voluntary commitments that the company has made or require such changes on a more accelerated time frame. there continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation, which 11 creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. if environmental laws or regulations are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the company or its products, they could negatively impact the company business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. we cannot predict with certainty the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies and uncertainties. we are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability (including asbestos), prior acquisitions and divestitures, employment, employee benefits plans, intellectual property, antitrust, accounting, import and export, and environmental, health and safety matters. our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may become subject to or be required to pay damage awards or settlements that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. the incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risks information relating to market risks is included in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under the caption financial instruments . 35quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk information relating to market risk is included in 'item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations' under the caption 'financial instruments.'quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information relating to market risk is included in 'item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations' under the caption 'financial instruments.' 25quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information relating to market risk is included under the caption 'financial instruments' in 'management's discussion and analysis' on pages 36 and 37 of our 2002 annual report to shareowners, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information relating to market risk is included under the caption 'financial instruments' in 'management's discussion and analysis' on pages 43 and 44 of our 2003 annual report to shareowners, and such information is incorporated herein by reference.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information relating to market risk is included in &ldquo;item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&rdquo; under the caption &ldquo;financial instruments&rdquo;.risk factors.&rdquo; u.s. government sales sales to the u.s. government (principally by our aerospace segment), acting through its various departments and agencies and through prime contractors, amounted to $3,719, $3,464 and $3,111 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, which included sales to the u.s. department of defense, as a prime contractor and subcontractor, of $2,939, $2,808 and $2,564 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. u.s. defense spending increased in 2005 and is also expected to increase in 2006. we do not expect to be significantly affected by any proposed changes in 2006 federal spending due principally to the varied mix of the government programs which impact us (oem production, engineering development programs, aftermarket spares and repairs and overhaul programs). our contracts with the u.s. government are subject to audits, investigations, and termination by the government. see &ldquo;item 1a. risk factors.&rdquo; backlog our total backlog at december 31, 2005 and 2004 was $9,327 and $8,229 million, respectively. we anticipate that approximately $7,594 million of the 2005 backlog will be filled in 2006. we believe that backlog is not necessarily a reliable indicator of our future sales because a substantial portion of the orders constituting this backlog may be canceled at the customer's option. competition we are subject to active competition in substantially all product and service areas. competition is expected to continue in all geographic regions. competitive conditions vary widely among the thousands of products and services provided by us, and vary country by country. depending on the particular customer or market involved, our businesses compete on a variety of factors, such as price, quality, reliability, delivery, customer service, performance, applied technology, product innovation and product recognition. brand identity, service to customers and quality are generally important competitive factors for our products and services, and there is considerable price competition. other competitive factors for certain products include breadth of product line, research and development efforts and technical and managerial capability. while our competitive position varies among our products and services, we believe we are a significant competitor in each of our major product and service classes. however, a number of our products and services are sold in competition with those of a large number of other companies, some of which have substantial financial resources and significant technological capabilities. in addition, some of our products compete with the captive component divisions of original equipment manufacturers. international operations we are engaged in manufacturing, sales, service and research and development mainly in the united states, europe, canada, asia and latin america. u.s. exports and foreign manufactured products are significant to our operations. u.s. exports comprised 10 and 9 percent of our total net sales in 2005 and 2004, respectively. foreign manufactured products and services, mainly in europe, were 35 percent of our total net sales in both 2005 and 2004. approximately 20 percent of total 2005 net sales of aerospace-related products and services were exports of u.s. manufactured products and systems and performance of services such as aircraft repair and overhaul. exports were principally made to europe, asia and canada. foreign manufactured products and systems and performance of services comprised 14 percent of total 2005 aerospace net sales. 7 approximately 2 percent of total 2005 net sales of automation and control solutions products were exports of u.s. manufactured products. foreign manufactured products and performance of services accounted for 53 percent of total 2005 net sales of automation and control solutions. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe and mexico, with less significant operations in asia and canada. approximately 13 percent of total 2005 net sales of specialty materials products were exports of u.s. manufactured products. exports were principally made to asia, europe, latin america and canada. foreign manufactured products comprised 18 percent of total 2005 net sales of specialty materials. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in asia and canada. exports of u.s. manufactured products comprised 1 percent of total 2005 net sales of transportation systems products. foreign manufactured products accounted for 60 percent of total 2005 net sales of transportation systems. the principal manufacturing facilities outside the u.s. are in europe, with less significant operations in asia, latin america and canada. financial information related to geographic areas is included in note 24 of notes to financial statements in &ldquo;item 8. financial statements and supplementary data&rdquo;. information regarding the economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international operations is included in &ldquo;item 1a. risk factors.&rdquo; raw materials the principal raw materials used in our operations are generally readily available. we experienced no significant or unusual problems in the purchase of key raw materials and commodities in 2005. except related to phenol, a raw material used in our specialty materials segment, we are not dependent on any one supplier for a material amount of our raw materials. we purchase phenol under a supply agreement with one supplier. we have no reason to believe there is any material risk to this supply. we are highly dependent on our suppliers and subcontractors in order to meet commitments to our customers. in addition, many major components and product equipment items are procured or subcontracted on a sole-source basis with a number of domestic and foreign companies. we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process to control risk associated with such reliance on third parties. while we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. the costs of certain key raw materials, including natural gas and benzene, in our specialty materials' business were at historically high levels in 2005 and are expected to remain at those levels in 2006. we will continue to attempt to offset raw material cost increases with formula price agreements and price increases where feasible. at present, we have no reason to believe a shortage of raw materials will cause any material adverse impact during 2006. see &ldquo;item 1a. risk factors&rdquo; for further discussion. patents, trademarks, licenses and distribution rights our businesses are not dependent upon any single patent or related group of patents, or any licenses or distribution rights. we own, or are licensed under, a large number of patents, patent applications and trademarks acquired over a period of many years, which relate to many of our products or improvements to those products and which are of importance to our business. from time to time, new patents and trademarks are obtained, and patent and trademark licenses and rights are acquired from others. we also have distribution rights of varying terms for a number of products and services produced by other companies. in our judgment, those rights are adequate for the conduct of our business. we believe that, in the aggregate, the rights under our patents, trademarks and licenses are generally important to our operations, but we do not consider any patent, trademark or related group of patents, or any licensing or distribution rights related to a specific process or product, to be of material importance in relation to our total business. see &ldquo;item 1a. risk factors&rdquo; for further discussion. we have registered trademarks for a number of our products, including such consumer brands as honeywell, prestone, fram, autolite, bendix, jurid, holts and garrett. 8 research and development our research activities are directed toward the discovery and development of new products and processes and the development of new uses for existing products. research and development expense totaled $1,072, $917 and $751 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. the increase in research and development expense in 2004 compared with 2003 resulted primarily from design and developments costs associated with new aircraft platforms in aerospace and new product development costs in automation and control solutions. customer-sponsored (principally the u.s. government) research and development activities amounted to an additional $694, $593 and $608 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. environment we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. it is our policy to comply with these requirements, and we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage, and of resulting financial liability, in connection with our business. some risk of environmental damage is, however, inherent in some of our operations and products, as it is with other companies engaged in similar businesses. we are and have been engaged in the handling, manufacture, use and disposal of many substances classified as hazardous or toxic by one or more regulatory agencies. we believe that, as a general matter, our policies, practices and procedures are properly designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and personal injury, and that our handling, manufacture, use and disposal of these substances are in accord with environmental and safety laws and regulations. it is possible, however, that future knowledge or other developments, such as improved capability to detect substances in the environment or increasingly strict environmental laws and standards and enforcement policies, could bring into question our current or past handling, manufacture, use or disposal of these substances. among other environmental requirements, we are subject to the federal superfund and similar state and foreign laws and regulations, under which we have been designated as a potentially responsible party that may be liable for cleanup costs associated with various hazardous waste sites, some of which are on the u.s. environmental protection agency's superfund priority list. although, under some court interpretations of these laws, there is a possibility that a responsible party might have to bear more than its proportional share of the cleanup costs if it is unable to obtain appropriate contribution from other responsible parties, we have not had to bear significantly more than our proportional share in multi-party situations taken as a whole. further information regarding environmental matters is included in &ldquo;item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations,&rdquo; in note 21 of notes to financial statements in &ldquo;item 8. financial statements and supplementary data&rdquo; and in &ldquo;item 1a. risk factors.&rdquo; employees we have approximately 116,000 employees at december 31, 2005, of which approximately 58,000 were located in the united states. item 1a. risk factors cautionary statement about forward-looking statements we have described many of the trends and other factors that drive our business and future results in &ldquo;item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&rdquo;, including under the headings &ldquo;economic and other factors&rdquo;, &ldquo;areas of focus&rdquo; and &ldquo;review of business segments&rdquo;. these sections and other parts of this report (including this item 1a) contain 9 &ldquo;forward-looking statements&rdquo; within the meaning of section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934. forward-looking statements are those that address activities, events or developments that management intends, expects, projects, believes or anticipates will or may occur in the future. they are based on management's assumptions and assessments in light of past experience and trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other relevant factors. they are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ significantly from those envisaged by our forward-looking statements. we do not undertake to update or revise any of our forward-looking statements. our forward-looking statements are also subject to risks and uncertainties that can affect our performance in both the near-and long-term. these forward-looking statements should be considered in light of the information included in this form 10-k, including, in particular, the factors discussed below. risk factors our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, those set forth below, any one of which could cause our actual results to vary materially from recent results or from our anticipated future results. industry and economic conditions may adversely affect the market and operating conditions of our customers, which in turn can affect demand for our products and services and our results of operations. the operating results of our segments are impacted by general industry and economic conditions that can cause changes in spending and capital investment patterns, demand for our products and services and the level of our manufacturing costs. the operating results of our aerospace segment, which generated 38 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2005, are directly tied to cyclical industry and economic conditions, including global demand for air travel as reflected in new aircraft production and/or the retirement of older aircraft, global flying hours, and business and general aviation aircraft utilization rates, as well as the level and mix of u.s. government appropriations for defense and space programs (as further discussed below). the challenging operating environment faced by the commercial airline industry is expected to continue and may be influenced by a wide variety of factors, including aircraft fuel prices, labor issues, airline insolvencies, terrorism and safety concerns, and changes in regulations. future terrorist actions or pandemic health issues could dramatically reduce both the demand for air travel and our aerospace aftermarket sales and margins. the operating results of our automation and control solutions (acs) segment, which generated 34 percent of our consolidated revenues in 2005, are impacted by the level of global residential and commercial construction (including retrofits and upgrades), capital spending on building and process automation, industrial plant capacity utilization and expansion, and material price inflation. specialty materials' operating results are impacted by global gross domestic product and capacity utilization for chemical, industrial, refining and petrochemical plants. transportation systems' operating results are impacted by global production and demand for automobiles and trucks equipped with turbochargers, and consumer spending for automotive aftermarket and car care products. because approximately 28 percent of our sales are in europe, the relative strength of the european economy and exchange rate fluctuations impact our sales and margins. raw material price fluctuations and the ability of key suppliers to meet quality and delivery requirements can increase the cost of our products and services and impact our ability to meet commitments to customers. the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products, particularly in our specialty materials (benzene and natural gas) and transportation systems (steel and other metals) segments. our inability to offset material price inflation with pricing or productivity actions could adversely affect our results of operations. our manufacturing operations are also highly dependent upon the delivery of materials by outside suppliers and their assembly of major components and subsystems used in our products in a timely manner and in full compliance with purchase order terms and conditions, quality standards, and 10 applicable laws and regulations. we also depend in limited instances on sole source suppliers. our suppliers may fail to perform according to specifications as and when required and we may be unable to identify alternate suppliers or to mitigate the consequences of their non-performance. the supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by external events such as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, terrorist actions, labor disputes or governmental actions. our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under commercial and government contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations, and damage to customer relationships. our future growth is largely dependent upon our ability to develop new technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. our businesses operate in global markets that are characterized by rapidly changing technologies and evolving industry standards. accordingly, our future growth rate depends upon a number of factors, including our ability to (i) identify emerging technological trends in our target end-markets, (ii) develop and maintain competitive products, (iii) enhance our products by adding innovative features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors, and (iv) develop, manufacture and bring products to market quickly and cost-effectively. our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation can affect our competitive position and requires the investment of significant resources. these development efforts divert resources from other potential investments in our businesses, and they may not lead to the development of new technologies or products on a timely basis or that meet the needs of our customers as fully as competitive offerings. in addition, the markets for our products may not develop or grow as we currently anticipate. the failure of our technologies or products to gain market acceptance or their obsolescence due to more attractive offerings by our competitors could significantly reduce our revenues and adversely affect our competitive standing and prospects. protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. we own or are licensed under a large number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications, trademarks and copyrights. our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or infringed upon by third parties or we may be unable to maintain, renew or enter into new licenses of third party proprietary intellectual property on commercially reasonable terms. in some non-u.s. countries, laws affecting intellectual property are uncertain in their application, which can affect the scope or enforceability of our patents and other intellectual property rights. any of these events or factors could diminish or cause us to lose the competitive advantages associated with our intellectual property, subject us to judgments, penalties and significant litigation costs, and/or temporarily or permanently disrupt our sales and marketing of the affected products or services. an increasing percentage of our sales and operations is in non-u.s. jurisdictions and is subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations. our international operations, including u.s. exports, comprise a growing proportion of our operating results and our strategy calls for increasing sales to and operations in overseas markets, including developing markets such as china, india and the middle east. as this trend continues, our exposure to the risks attendant to international operations also increases. these risks include fluctuations in currency value, exchange control regulations, wage and price controls, employment regulations, foreign investment laws, import and trade restrictions (including embargoes), and government instability. the cost of compliance with increasingly complex and often conflicting regulations worldwide can also impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our businesses, as well as our ability to improve productivity and maintain acceptable operating margins. we may be required to recognize impairment charges for our long-lived assets. at december 31, 2005, the net carrying value of long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other intangible assets) totaled approximately $14.3 billion. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess our long-lived assets to determine if they are 11 impaired. significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and market capitalization declines may result in charges to goodwill and other asset impairments. future impairment charges could significantly affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. impairment charges would also reduce our consolidated net worth and our shareowners' equity and increase our debt-to-total-capitalization ratio, which could negatively impact our access to the public debt and equity markets. a change in the level of u.s. government defense and space funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated could adversely impact sales of aerospace's defense and space-related product and services. sales of our defense and space-related products and services are largely dependent upon government budgets, particularly the u.s. defense budget. sales as a prime contractor and subcontractor to the u. s. department of defense comprised approximately 28 and 11 percent of aerospace and total sales, respectively, for the year ended december 31, 2005. although u.s. defense spending increased in 2005 and is expected to increase again in 2006, we cannot predict the extent to which funding for individual programs will be included, increased or reduced as part of the 2007 and subsequent budgets ultimately approved by congress, or be included in the scope of separate supplemental appropriations. we also cannot predict the impact of potential changes in priorities due to military transformation and planning and/or the nature of war-related activity on existing, follow-on or replacement programs. a shift in defense spending to programs in which we do not participate and/or reductions in funding for or termination of existing programs could adversely impact our results of operations. as a supplier of military and other equipment to the u. s. government, we are subject to unusual risks, such as the right of the u.s. government to terminate contracts for convenience and to conduct audits and investigations of our operations and performance. in addition to normal business risks, companies like honeywell that supply military and other equipment to the u.s. government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislations and regulations and other policies that reflect military and political developments, significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design improvements, intense competition for u.s. government business necessitating increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work, and other factors characteristic of the industry. changes are customary over the life of u.s. government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of contract prices. our contracts with the u.s. government are subject to audits. like many other government contractors, we have received audit reports that recommend downward price adjustments to certain contracts to comply with various government regulations. we have made adjustments and paid voluntary refunds in appropriate cases and may do so in the future. u.s. government contracts are subject to termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for our failure to perform under the applicable contract. in the case of a termination for convenience, we are typically entitled to reimbursement for our allowable costs incurred, plus termination costs and a reasonable profit. if a contract is terminated by the government for our failure to perform we could be liable for additional costs incurred by the government in acquiring undelivered goods or services from any other source and any other damages suffered by the government. we are also subject to government investigations of business practices and compliance with government procurement regulations. if honeywell or one of its businesses were charged with wrongdoing as a result of any such investigation or other government investigations (including violations of certain environmental or export laws), it could be suspended from bidding on or receiving awards of new government contracts pending the completion of legal proceedings. the u.s. 12 government also reserves the right to debar a contractor from receiving new government contracts for fraudulent, criminal or other egregious misconduct. debarment generally does not exceed three years. changes in legislation or government regulations or policies can have a significant impact on our results of operations. the sales and margins of each of our segments are directly impacted by government regulations. safety and performance regulations (including mandates of the federal aviation administration and other similar international regulatory bodies requiring the installation of equipment on aircraft), product certification requirements and government procurement practices can impact aerospace sales, research and development expenditures, operating costs and profitability. the demand for and cost of providing automation and control solutions products, services and solutions can be impacted by fire, security, safety, health care and energy efficiency standards and regulations. specialty materials' results of operations can be affected by environmental (e.g., government regulation of refrigerants), safety and energy efficiency standards and regulations, while emissions and energy efficiency standards and regulations can impact the demand for turbochargers in our transportation systems segment. completed acquisitions may not perform as anticipated or be integrated as planned. we regularly review our portfolio of businesses and pursue growth through acquisitions and seek to divest non-core businesses. we may not be able to complete transactions on favorable terms, on a timely basis or at all. in addition, our results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted by (i) the failure of acquired businesses to meet or exceed expected returns, (ii) the failure to integrate acquired businesses into honeywell on schedule and/or to achieve synergies within the plan and timeframe, and/or (iii) the inability to dispose of non-core assets and businesses on satisfactory terms and conditions and within the expected time frame. we cannot predict the outcome of litigation matters, government proceedings and other contingencies with certainty. we are subject to a number of lawsuits, investigations and disputes (some of which involve substantial amounts claimed) arising out of the conduct of our business, including matters relating to commercial transactions, government contracts, product liability, prior acquisitions and divestitures, employee benefits plans, and environmental, health and safety matters. resolution of these matters can be prolonged and costly, and the ultimate results or judgments are uncertain. moreover, our potential liabilities are subject to change over time due to new developments, changes in settlement strategy or the impact of evidentiary requirements, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements, or become subject to damage awards or settlements, that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. while we maintain insurance for certain risks, the amount of our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover the total amount of all insured claims and liabilities. it also is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational risks and liabilities. the incurrence of significant liabilities for which there is no or insufficient insurance coverage could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. our operations and the prior operations of predecessor companies expose us to the risk of material environmental liabilities. mainly because of past operations and operations of predecessor companies, we are subject to potentially material liabilities related to the remediation of environmental hazards and to personal injuries or property damages that may be caused by hazardous substance releases and exposures. we have incurred remedial response and voluntary clean-up costs for site contamination and are a party to lawsuits and claims associated with environmental and safety matters, including past production of products containing toxic substances. additional lawsuits, claims and costs involving environmental matters are likely to continue to arise in the future. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign government requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. these laws and regulations can 13 impose substantial fines and criminal sanctions for violations, and require installation of costly equipment or operational changes to limit emissions and/or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. we incur, and expect to continue to incur capital and operating costs to comply with these laws and regulations. in addition, changes in laws, regulations and enforcement of policies, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or new technology or information related to individual sites, or the imposition of new clean-up requirements or remedial techniques could require us to incur costs in the future that would have a negative effect on our financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk information relating to market risk is included in &ldquo;item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations&rdquo; under the caption &ldquo;financial instruments&rdquo;.