risk factors 11 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52risk factors 10 risk factors volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively affect invesco's revenues, operations, financial condition and liquidity and may continue to do so. the capital and credit markets continue to experience substantial volatility. in this regard: in the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure in the global financial system or additional failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in assets under management and severe liquidity or valuation issues in the short-term sponsored investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and retention and ability to attract key employees. additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. in addition to the impact of the market volatility on client portfolios, the illiquidity and volatility of both the global fixed income and equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows from pooled 10 table of contents investment vehicles or to timely meet client redemption requests. our money market funds have always maintained a $1.00 net asset value (nav); however, we do not guarantee such level. market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could affect their navs. if the nav of one of our money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in assets under management, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. in 2010, the sec adopted new rules governing u.s. registered money market funds. these rules are designed to significantly strengthen the regulatory requirements governing money market funds, increase the resilience of such funds to economic stresses, and reduce the risk of runs on these funds. regulators in the u.s. continue to evaluate whether to propose mandating a variable ( floating ) nav for money market funds. the company believes such a change would have significant adverse consequences on the money market funds industry and the short-term credit markets. even if legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. we may not adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in global financial markets. if we are unable to effect appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace, our profitability, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected by any reduction in assets under our management as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. we derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of assets under management. assets under management may decline for various reasons. for any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin may decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses remain fixed. factors that could decrease assets under management (and therefore revenues) include the following: declines in the market value of the assets in the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which those assets are concentrated. approximately 43% of our total assets under management were invested in equity securities and approximately 57% were invested in fixed income and other investments at december 31, 2011 . our aum as of january 31, 2012 , were $648.3 billion . we cannot predict whether volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our assets under management are concentrated. any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin. redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in funds and accounts in general or in the market segments on which invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance of the funds and accounts managed by invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales, increased redemptions of fund shares, and the loss of private institutional or individual accounts, with corresponding decreases in our revenues. failure of our funds and accounts to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income and stable return accounts. therefore, our revenues may decline if clients shift their investments to lower fee accounts. declines in the value of seed capital and partnership investments. the company has investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including, but not limited to equities, fixed income products, private equity, and real estate. investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks, or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed capital and partnership investments. as of december 31, 2011 , the company had $194.1 million in seed capital and partnership investments. 11 table of contents our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time. substantially all of our revenues are derived from investment advisory agreements. investment advisory agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days' notice. agreements with u.s. mutual funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the event of an assignment (as defined in the investment company act), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund's board of directors or trustees, as required by law. in addition, the board of trustees or directors of certain other fund accounts of invesco or our subsidiaries generally may terminate these investment advisory agreements upon written notice for any reason. mutual fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of assets under our management, and individual clients may elect to close their accounts, redeem their shares in our funds, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different fee structures. any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or assets under management, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility. certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. these redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. in addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of bonds held in various investment portfolios and other products. thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from money market portfolios and from other fixed income products. if securities within a money market portfolio default, or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its net asset value. although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining net asset value. some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. additionally, we have $25.5 million invested in invesco mortgage capital inc., $50.4 million of equity at risk invested in our collateralized loan obligation products, and $16.5 million invested in fixed income seed money at december 31, 2011 , the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates. we operate in an industry that is highly regulated in many countries, and any adverse changes in the laws or regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict business activities. subsidiaries operating in the european union (eu) also are subject to various eu directives, which are implemented by member state national legislation. possible sanctions include the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel, the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees and the imposition of additional capital requirements. it is also possible that laws and regulations governing our operations or particular investment products could be amended or interpreted in a manner that is adverse to us. certain of our subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum levels of capital. these and other similar provisions of applicable law may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. a sub-group of invesco subsidiaries, including all of our regulated eu subsidiaries, is subject to consolidated capital requirements under eu directives, and capital is maintained within this sub-group to satisfy these regulations. at december 31, 2011 , the european sub-group had cash and cash equivalent balances of $440.0 million ( december 31, 2010 : $456.2 million ) , much of which is used to satisfy these regulatory requirements. complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the european sub-group. as a result of corporate restructuring and the regulatory undertakings that we have given, certain of these eu subsidiaries may be required to limit their dividends to the parent company, invesco ltd. we cannot guarantee that further corporate restructuring will not be required to comply with applicable legislation. the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen significant increased regulation in recent years. various changes in law and regulation have been enacted or adopted and are beginning to be implemented or otherwise developed in multiple jurisdictions globally in response to the crisis in the financial markets that began in 2007. various other proposals remain under consideration by various legislators, regulators, other government officials and other public policy commentators. certain enacted provisions and certain other proposals are potentially far reaching and, depending upon their 12 table of contents implementation, could have a material impact on invesco's business. while many of these provisions appear designed to address perceived problems in the banking sector, certain of the provisions will or may be applied to other financial services companies, including investment managers. we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. to the extent that existing regulations are amended or future regulations are adopted that reduce the sale, or increase the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affect the investment performance of our products, our aggregate assets under management and our revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, regulatory changes have imposed and may continue to impose additional costs, which could negatively impact our profitability. in the united states, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ) was signed into law on july 21, 2010. while invesco does not at this time believe that the dodd-frank act will fundamentally change the investment management industry or cause invesco to reconsider its fundamental strategy, certain provisions will, and other provisions may, increase regulatory burdens and related compliance costs. in addition, the scope and impact of many provisions of the dodd-frank act will be determined by implementing regulations, some of which require lengthy proposal and promulgation periods. moreover, the dodd-frank act mandates many regulatory studies, some of which pertain directly to the investment management industry, which could lead to additional legislation or regulation. as a result of these uncertainties regarding implementation of the dodd-frank act and such other future potential legislative or regulatory changes, the impact of the dodd-frank act on the investment management industry and invesco cannot be predicted at this time. the european union has promulgated or is considering various new or revised directives pertaining to financial services, including investment managers. such directives are progressing at various stages, and are being or will or would be implemented by national legislation in member states. as with the dodd-frank act, invesco does not believe implementation of these directives will fundamentally change our industry or cause us to reconsider our fundamental strategy, but it does appear certain provisions will, and other provisions may, increase regulatory burdens and compliance costs. similar developments are being implemented or considered in other jurisdictions where we do business; such developments could have similar effects. potential developments under enacted and proposed legal and regulatory changes, and related matters, include, without limitation: expanded prudential regulation over investment management firms. new or increased capital requirements and related regulation (including new capital requirements pertaining to money market funds). additional change to the regulation of money market funds in the u.s. the sec has adopted changes to rule 2a-7, the primary securities regulation governing u.s. registered money market funds. these new rules are designed to significantly strengthen the regulatory requirements governing money market funds, increase the resilience of such funds to economic stresses, and reduce the risk of runs on these funds. regulators in the u.s. continue to evaluate whether to propose additional legal and regulatory changes impacting money market funds. invesco believes certain potential changes that have been the subject of recent media reports would have significant adverse consequences on the money market funds industry and the short-term credit markets. changes to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products. in the u.s., the sec previously has proposed and may repropose significant changes to rule 12b-1. invesco believes these proposals could increase operational and compliance costs. the u.k. financial services authority continues to develop its retail distribution review, which is expected to reshape the manner in which retail investment funds are sold in the u.k. the eu adopted the alternative investment fund manager directive; implementing legislation in member states could, among other elements, impose restrictions on the marketing and sale within the eu of private equity and other alternative investment funds sponsored by non-eu managers. various regulators have promulgated or are considering other new disclosure and suitability requirements pertaining to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products, including enhanced standards and requirements pertaining to disclosures made to retail investors at the point of sale. guidelines regarding the structure and components of compensation, including under the dodd-frank act and various eu directives. new and potentially complex and burdensome tax reporting and tax withholding obligations and related compliance activities pertaining to sponsored investment products, including obligations under the foreign account tax compliance act (fatca). additional resourcing for regulatory examinations and inspections, including enforcement reviews, and a more aggressive posture regarding commencing enforcement proceedings resulting in fines, penalties and additional remedial activities. 13 table of contents changes impacting certain other products or markets (e.g., retirement savings). enhanced licensing and qualification requirements for key personnel. other additional rules and regulations and disclosure requirements. certain provisions impose additional disclosure burdens on public companies, including invesco. certain proposals could impose requirements for more widespread disclosures of compensation to highly-paid individuals. depending upon the scope of any such requirements, invesco could be disadvantaged in retaining key employees vis- -vis private companies, including hedge fund sponsors. strengthening standards regarding various ethical matters, including enhanced focus of u.s. regulators and law enforcement agencies on compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and the enactment of the u.k. bribery act. other changes impacting the identity or the organizational structure of regulators with supervisory authority over invesco. invesco cannot at this time predict the full impact of potential legal and regulatory changes on its business. it is possible such changes could impose new compliance costs or capital requirements or impact invesco in other ways that could have a material adverse impact on invesco's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. moreover, certain legal or regulatory changes could require us to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur other new constraints or costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. to the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of our products and services or our investment strategies cause or contribute to reduced sales or increased redemptions of our products or impair the investment performance of our products, our aggregate assets under management and results of operations might be adversely affected. civil litigation and governmental enforcement actions and investigations could adversely affect our assets under management and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business. invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings arising from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory actions. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings, for additional information. our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of key individuals or a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. retaining highly skilled technical and management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain clients and retail shareholder accounts. the market for investment management professionals is competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as the investment management industry has experienced growth. the market for investment managers is also increasingly characterized by the movement of investment managers among different firms. our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals with a supportive professional working environment and compensation and benefits that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. however, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of key individuals or significant investment management personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. if our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income. our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and our good reputation is critical to our business. our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries, material errors in public reports, employee dishonesty or other misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or satisfactorily addressed. further, our business requires us to continuously manage actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client or those of invesco. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address and manage conflicts of interest, but this task can be complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged, and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected, if we fail - or appear to fail - to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our assets under management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. 14 table of contents failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines could result in damage awards against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. many of the investment management agreements under which we manage assets or provide products or services specify investment guidelines or contractual requirements that invesco is required to observe in the provision of its services. a failure to comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts, any of which could cause our revenues and net income to decline. we maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to prevent, detect and correct such errors. when an error is detected, we typically will make a payment into the applicable client account to correct it. significant errors could impact our results of operations. competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, increase commissions paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries, all of which could reduce our profitability. the investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. we continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products. we face strong competition in every market in which we operate. our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. our competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. if these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various distribution channels around the world have also resulted in increased competition. in recent years there have been several instances of industry consolidation, both in the area of distributors and manufacturers of investment products. further consolidation may occur in these areas in the future. the increasing size and market influence of certain distributors of our products and of certain direct competitors may have a negative impact on our ability to compete at the same levels of profitability in the future, should we find ourselves unable to maintain relevance in the markets in which we compete. we may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. as part of our business strategy, we regularly review, and from time to time have discussions with respect to, potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to pursue such transactions, be successful in negotiating the required agreements, or successfully close transactions after signing such agreements. acquisitions also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if pending transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to closing or integration. following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. there can be no assurance that such sellers will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. our ability to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors. our access to the capital markets, including for purposes of financing potential acquisitions, depends significantly on our credit ratings. we have received credit ratings of a3/stable and a-/stable from moody's and standard &amp; poor's credit rating agencies, respectively, as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k. according to moody's, obligations rated 'a' are considered upper medium grade and are subject to low credit risk. invesco's rating of a3 is at the low end of the a range (a1, a2, a3), but three notches above the lowest investment grade rating of baa3. standard and poor's rating of a- is at the lower end of the a rating, with bbb- representing standard and poor's lowest investment grade rating. according to standard and poor's, a obligations exhibit a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, but are somewhat susceptible to adverse economic conditions or changing circumstances. we believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to: our revenues are exposed to equity market volatility, negative tangible equity, and potential impact from regulatory changes to the industry. additionally, the rating agencies could decide to downgrade the entire investment management industry, based on their perspective of future growth and solvency. material deterioration of these factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit ratings, 15 table of contents thereby limiting our ability to generate additional financing. our credit facility borrowing rates are tied to our credit ratings. management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings. a reduction in our long- or short-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, and may result in outflows thereby reducing aum and revenues. continued volatility in global finance markets may also affect our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so. if we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. as of december 31, 2011 , we had outstanding total debt of $1,284.7 million and total equity attributable to common shareholders of $7,784.8 million , excluding retained earnings appropriated for investors in consolidated investment products. the amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient assets to repay such amounts in full. our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios. this credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. the breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or due to a significant and prolonged market-driven decline in our operating results) would result in a default under the credit facility. in the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if any indebtedness under the credit facility were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full. changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our revenues and hinder our growth. we sell a significant portion of our investment products through a variety of financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, regional broker-dealers, banks and financial planners in north america, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and financial organizations in europe and asia. increasing competition for these distribution channels could cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. following the financial crisis, there has been consolidation of banks and broker-dealers, particularly in the u.s., and a limited amount of migration of brokers and financial advisors away from major banks to independent firms focused largely on providing advice. if these trends continue, our distribution costs could increase as a percentage of our revenues generated. additionally, particularly outside of the u.s., certain of the intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. increasingly, investors, particularly in the institutional market, rely on external consultants and other unconflicted third parties for advice on the choice of investment manager. these consultants and third parties tend to exert a significant degree of influence and they may favor a competitor of invesco as better meeting their particular client's needs. there is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. if one of our major distributors were to cease operations, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources and the consultant community would impair our ability to sell our products, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard confidential and sensitive information. we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations as part of our regular operations. our systems could be attacked by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things, damage our reputation, allow competitors to access our proprietary business information, result in liability for failure to safeguard our clients' data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, or require material capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the 16 table of contents breach. our business is vulnerable to deficiencies and failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to breaches and errors, resulting in loss of customers or claims against us or our subsidiaries. the ability to consistently and reliably obtain accurate securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and clients in other accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. in recent periods, illiquid markets for certain types of securities have required increased use of fair value pricing, which is dependent on certain subjective judgments that have the potential to be challenged. any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports, other breaches and errors, and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate customers and potentially give rise to claims against us. our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party vendors. these systems or vendors could suffer deficiencies, failures or interruptions due to various natural or man-made causes, and our back-up procedures and capabilities may not be adequate to avoid extended interruptions in operations. certain of these processes involve a degree of manual input, and thus similar problems could occur from time to time due to human error. if we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems would provide us with an important advantage. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or technology personnel. further, as we strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. although we seek to regularly assess and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the united states and have functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. the largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our assets under management, is presently denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the united states whose functional currencies are not the u.s. dollar. as a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. we do not actively manage our exposure to such effects. consequently, significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the u.k. pound sterling, euro, or canadian dollar, among other currencies, could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results. the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we have goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to annual impairment reviews. we also have definite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to impairment testing if indicators of impairment are identified. goodwill and intangible assets totaled $6,907.9 million and $1,322.8 million , respectively, at december 31, 2011 ( december 31, 2010 : $6,980.2 million and $1,337.2 million , respectively). we may not realize the value of such assets. we perform impairment reviews of the book values of these assets on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. a variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related assets would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period. see part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting policies - goodwill and - intangibles, for additional details of the company's goodwill impairment analysis process. 17 table of contents bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to shareholders. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda (companies act). the companies act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. under bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances. directors and officers may owe duties to a company's creditors in cases of impending insolvency. directors and officers of a bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. if a director or officer of a bermuda company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. our bye-laws provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to us other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the companies act. under our bye-laws, each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against us or any of our officers, directors or employees. the waiver applies to any action taken by a director, officer or employee, or the failure of such person to take any action, in the performance of his duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the director, officer or employee. this waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our directors, officers and employees unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or to obtain majority representation on our board of directors without the consent of our board. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares under such circumstances. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows. under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. there is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation. we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. proposals have been introduced in the u.s. congress that, if ultimately enacted, could either limit treaty benefits on certain payments made by our u.s. subsidiaries to non-u.s. affiliates, treat the company as a u.s. corporation and thereby subject the earnings from non-u.s. subsidiaries of the company to u.s. taxation, or both. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity 18 table of contents of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the company is primarily exposed to market risk in the form of securities market risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk. aum market price risk the company's investment management revenues are comprised of fees based on a percentage of the value of aum. declines in equity or fixed income security market prices could cause revenues to decline because of lower investment management fees by: causing the value of aum to decrease. causing the returns realized on aum to decrease (impacting performance fees). causing clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments in markets that they perceive to offer greater opportunity and that the company does not serve. causing clients to rebalance assets away from investments that the company manages into investments that the company does not manage. causing clients to reallocate assets away from products that earn higher revenues into products that earn lower revenues. underperformance of client accounts relative to competing products could exacerbate these factors. securities market risk the company has investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes. investments are generally made to establish a track record or to hedge economically exposure to certain deferred compensation plans. the company's exposure to market risk arises from its investments. the following table summarizes the fair values of the investments exposed to market risk and provides a sensitivity analysis of the estimated fair values of those investments, assuming a 20% increase or decrease in fair values: $ in millions carrying value fair value assuming 20% increase fair value assuming 20% decrease december 31, 2011 trading investments: investments related to deferred compensation plans 184.4 221.3 147.5 available-for-sale investments: seed money in affiliated funds 63.5 76.2 50.8 equity method investments 193.1 231.7 154.5 other 8.2 9.8 6.6 total market risk on investments 449.2 539.0 359.4 75 table of contents $ in millions carrying value fair value assuming 20% increase fair value assuming 20% decrease december 31, 2010 trading investments: investments related to deferred compensation plans 165.5 198.6 132.4 available-for-sale investments: seed money in affiliated funds 99.5 119.4 79.6 equity method investments 156.9 188.3 125.5 other 7.5 9.0 6.0 total market risk on investments 429.4 515.3 343.5 interest rate risk interest rate risk relates to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its external debt and cash and cash equivalent investments. on december 31, 2011 , the interest rates on 58.0% of the company's borrowings were fixed for a weighted average period of 1.4 years. borrowings under the credit facility will have floating interest rates. a 1% change in the level of interest rates on current debt levels would change annualized interest expense by $5.4 million but would not have a material impact on the ability of the company to continue to service its indebtedness. the interest rate profile of the financial assets of the company on december 31, 2011 , was: $ in millions carrying value fair value assuming a +1% interest rate change fair value assuming a -1% interest rate change december 31, 2011 available-for-sale investments: foreign time deposits 32.2 32.3 32.2 total investments 32.2 32.3 32.2 december 31, 2010 available-for-sale investments: collateralized loan obligations 0.5 0.5 0.5 foreign time deposits 28.2 28.3 28.2 total investments 28.7 28.8 28.7 the interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the company on december 31 was: $ in millions total floating rate fixed rate weighted average interest rate (%) weighted average period for which rate is fixed (years) 2011 currency: u.s. dollar 1,284.7 539.0 745.7 3.8 % 1.4 2010 currency: u.s. dollar 1,315.7 570.0 745.7 4.3 % 2.4 see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data - note 9, debt for additional disclosures relating to the u.s. dollar floating and fixed rate obligations. the company's only fixed interest financial assets at december 31, 2011 , are foreign time deposit investments of $32.2 million ( 2010 : $28.2 million). the weighted average interest rate on these investments is 0.80% ( 2010 : 0.57%) and the weighted average 76 table of contents time for which the rate is fixed is 0.2 years ( 2010 : 0.4 years). foreign exchange rate risk the company has transactional currency exposures that occur when any of the company's subsidiaries receives or pays cash in a currency different from its functional currency. such exposure arises from sales or purchases by an operating unit in currencies other than the unit's functional currency. these exposures are not actively managed. the company also has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets and results of operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risk when translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation into invesco ltd. the company does not hedge these exposures. the company is exposed to foreign exchange revaluation into the income statement on monetary assets and liabilities that are held by subsidiaries in different functional currencies than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. net foreign exchange revaluation losses were $1.3 million in 2011 ( 2010 : losses of $1.0 million), and are included in general and administrative expenses and other gains and losses, net on the consolidated statements of income. we continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange revaluation. 77 table of contents supplementary quarterly financial data the following is selected unaudited consolidated data for invesco ltd. for the quarters indicated: $ in millions, except per share data q411 q311 q211 q111 q410 q310 q210 q110 operating revenues: investment management fees $747.6 $779.5 $819.1 $792.3 $773.7 $725.8 $627.9 $593.5 service and distribution fees 181.1 189.1 211.4 198.7 202.0 191.6 139.4 112.5 performance fees 23.9 2.6 7.6 3.8 18.7 2.5 3.5 1.4 other 44.5 26.6 31.9 32.5 34.1 33.2 16.2 11.7 total operating revenues 997.1 997.8 1,070.0 1,027.3 1,028.5 953.1 787.0 719.1 operating expenses: employee compensation 316.5 305.5 318.3 305.9 312.7 304.1 260.5 237.6 third-party distribution, service and advisory 301.8 314.4 341.8 324.5 315.6 291.7 238.3 208.2 marketing 21.1 13.1 26.1 25.7 25.6 19.6 17.6 15.7 property, office and technology 66.0 62.7 61.9 64.0 65.6 63.5 55.8 53.5 general and administrative 74.6 69.6 77.6 73.6 83.6 64.5 64.1 50.0 transaction and integration 5.5 4.7 11.3 7.9 26.7 26.8 79.3 17.2 total operating expenses 785.5 770.0 837.0 801.6 829.8 770.2 715.6 582.2 operating income 211.6 227.8 233.0 225.7 198.7 182.9 71.4 136.9 other income/(expense): equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 4.9 8.1 10.8 6.7 13.3 10.7 10.4 5.8 interest income 2.7 3.8 2.4 2.1 3.6 3.4 1.8 1.6 interest income of consolidated investment products 73.6 79.6 79.8 74.2 65.0 70.3 53.1 52.5 gains/(losses) of consolidated investment products, net 104.4 (93.1 ) (64.7 ) (85.5 ) (28.0 ) (148.3 ) 187.2 103.1 interest expense (14.3 ) (15.3 ) (16.0 ) (16.2 ) (16.0 ) (16.1 ) (14.1 ) (12.4 ) interest expense of consolidated investment products (51.8 ) (48.7 ) (46.5 ) (40.0 ) (36.6 ) (35.6 ) (25.6 ) (20.8 ) other gains and losses, net 54.8 (19.7 ) 6.0 7.9 12.4 14.6 (9.3 ) (2.1 ) income before income taxes 385.9 142.5 204.8 174.9 212.4 81.9 274.9 264.6 income tax provision (76.0 ) (59.1 ) (75.4 ) (75.6 ) (55.7 ) (54.5 ) (36.7 ) (50.1 ) net income 309.9 83.4 129.4 99.3 156.7 27.4 238.2 214.5 (gains)/losses attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities, net (107.6 ) 83.5 53.6 78.2 18.5 127.3 (197.4 ) (119.5 ) net income attributable to common shareholders $202.3 $166.9 $183.0 $177.5 $175.2 $154.7 $40.8 $95.0 earnings per share*: - basic $0.44 $0.36 $0.39 $0.38 $0.37 $0.32 $0.09 $0.22 - diluted $0.44 $0.36 $0.39 $0.38 $0.37 $0.32 $0.09 $0.21 average shares outstanding*: - basic 456.8 459.5 465.5 469.9 470.5 476.6 455.0 439.0 - diluted 458.3 461.0 467.4 472.1 473.1 479.1 457.8 442.4 dividends declared per share: $0.1225 $0.1225 $0.1225 $0.1100 $0.1100 $0.1100 $0.1100 $0.1025 ____________ * the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may differ from the annual earnings per share amounts due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in interim periods. 78 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively affect invesco's revenues, operations, financial condition and liquidity and may continue to do so. in recent years, capital and credit markets have experienced substantial volatility. in this regard: in the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure in the global financial system or additional failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in assets under management ("aum") and severe liquidity or valuation issues in sponsored investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and retention and ability to attract key employees. additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. in addition to the impact of the market volatility on client portfolios, the illiquidity and volatility of both the global fixed income and equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows or to timely meet client redemption requests. our money market funds have always maintained a $1.00 net asset value (nav); however, we do not guarantee such level. market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could affect their navs. 10 table of contents if the nav of one of our money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in aum, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. regulators in the u.s. continue to evaluate whether to propose mandating a variable ( floating ) nav for money market funds. the company believes such a change would have significant adverse consequences on the money market funds industry and the short-term credit markets. even if legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts continue to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. we may not adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in global financial markets. if we are unable to effect appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace, our profitability, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected by any reduction in aum as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. we derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of aum. aum may decline for various reasons. for any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin may decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses remain fixed. factors that could decrease aum (and therefore revenues) include the following: declines in the market value of the assets in the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which those assets are concentrated. approximately 43% of our total aum were invested in equity securities and approximately 57% were invested in fixed income and other investments at december 31, 2012 . our aum as of january 31, 2013 were $712.6 billion. we cannot predict whether volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our aum are concentrated. any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin. redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in funds and accounts in general or in the market segments on which invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance of the funds and accounts managed by invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales, increased redemptions of fund shares, and the loss of private institutional or individual accounts, with corresponding decreases in our revenues. failure of our funds and accounts to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income and stable return accounts. we have seen our net revenue yield decline in recent years, reflecting in part a shift by clients to lower fee products. our revenues may decline if clients continue to shift their investments to lower fee accounts. declines in the value of seed capital and partnership investments. the company has investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including, but not limited to equities, fixed income products, private equity, and real estate. investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks, or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed capital and partnership investments. as of december 31, 2012 , the company had $275.6 million in seed capital and partnership investments. our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time. substantially all of our revenues are derived from investment advisory agreements. investment advisory agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days' notice. agreements with u.s. mutual funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the event of an assignment (as defined in the investment company act of 1940, as amended), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund's board of directors or trustees, as required by law. in addition, the board of trustees or 11 table of contents directors of certain other fund accounts of invesco or our subsidiaries generally may terminate these investment advisory agreements upon written notice for any reason. mutual fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of aum, and individual clients may elect to close their accounts, redeem their shares in our funds, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different fee structures. any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or aum, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility. certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. these redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. in addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of bonds held in various investment portfolios and other products. thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from money market portfolios and from other fixed income products. if securities within a money market portfolio default, or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its nav. although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining nav. some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. additionally, at december 31, 2012 , we have $32.5 million invested in invesco mortgage capital inc., $42.4 million of equity at risk invested in our collateralized loan obligation products, and $44.4 million invested in fixed income seed money , the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates. we operate in an industry that is highly regulated in many countries, and any enforcement action or adverse changes in the laws or regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict our business activities, conduct examinations, risk assessments, investigations and capital adequacy reviews, and impose remedial programs to address perceived deficiencies. subsidiaries operating in the european union ( eu ) also are subject to various eu directives, which are implemented by member state national legislation. as a result of regulatory oversight, we could face requirements which negatively impact the way in which we conduct business, impose additional capital requirements and involve enforcement actions which could lead to sanctions including the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel, or the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities, or in private litigation against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. certain of our subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum levels of capital and such capital requirements may be increased from time-to-time. these and other similar provisions of applicable law may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. a sub-group of invesco subsidiaries, including all of our regulated eu subsidiaries, is subject to consolidated capital requirements under eu directives, and capital is maintained within this sub-group to satisfy these regulations. at december 31, 2012 , the european sub-group had cash and cash equivalent balances of $528.3 million ( december 31, 2011 : $440.0 million ), much of which is used to satisfy these regulatory requirements. complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the european sub-group. as a result of corporate restructuring and regulatory requirements, certain of these eu subsidiaries may be required to limit their dividends to the parent company, invesco ltd. the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen significant increased regulation in recent years. various changes in law and regulation have been enacted or adopted and are being implemented or otherwise developed in multiple jurisdictions globally in response to the crisis in the financial markets that began in 2007. various other proposals remain under consideration by legislators, regulators, and other government officials and other public policy commentators. certain enacted provisions and certain other proposals are potentially far reaching and, depending upon their implementation, could have a material impact on invesco's business. while many of these provisions appear designed to address perceived problems in the banking sector, certain of the provisions will or may be applied to other financial services companies, including investment managers. we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. to the extent that existing regulations are amended or future regulations are 12 table of contents adopted that reduce the sale, or increase the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affect the investment performance of our products, our aggregate aum and our revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, regulatory changes have imposed and may continue to impose additional costs, which could negatively impact our profitability. in the united states, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ) was signed into law on july 21, 2010. while invesco does not believe that the dodd-frank act will fundamentally change the investment management industry or cause invesco to reconsider its basic strategy, certain provisions will, and other provisions may, require us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also will or may increase regulatory burdens and related compliance costs. furthermore, certain provisions may have unintended adverse consequences on the liquidity or structure of the financial markets. in addition, the scope and impact of many provisions of the dodd-frank act will be determined by implementing regulations, some of which require lengthy proposal and promulgation periods. moreover, the dodd-frank act mandates many regulatory studies, some of which pertain directly to the investment management industry, which could lead to additional legislation or regulation. as a result of these uncertainties regarding implementation of the dodd-frank act and such other future potential legislative or regulatory changes, the full impact of the dodd-frank act on the investment management industry and invesco cannot be predicted at this time. the european union has promulgated or is considering various new or revised directives pertaining to financial services, including investment managers. such directives are progressing at various stages, and are being or will or would be implemented by national legislation in member states. as with the dodd-frank act, invesco does not believe implementation of these directives will fundamentally change our industry or cause us to reconsider our fundamental strategy, but it does appear certain provisions will, and other provisions may, require us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also will or may increase regulatory burdens and compliance costs. furthermore, certain provisions may have unintended adverse consequences on the liquidity or structure of the financial markets. similar developments are being implemented or considered in other jurisdictions where we do business; such developments could have similar effects. developments under enacted and proposed legal and regulatory changes, and related matters, will or may include, without limitation: expanded prudential regulation over investment management firms. new or increased capital requirements and related regulation (including new capital requirements pertaining to money market funds). additional change to the regulation of money market funds in the u.s. the sec in 2010 adopted changes to rule 2a-7, the primary securities regulation governing u.s. registered money market funds. these new rules were designed to significantly strengthen the regulatory requirements governing money market funds, increase the resilience of such funds to economic stresses, and reduce the risk of runs on these funds. regulators in the u.s. continue to evaluate whether to propose additional legal and regulatory changes impacting money market funds. invesco believes certain potential changes that have been considered (including a variable nav) would have significant adverse consequences on the money market funds industry and the short-term credit markets. removal or limitation of previously available exemptions from u.s. commodity futures trading commission ( cftc ) regulations which impose new registration, disclosure and reporting requirements with respect to certain funds that use or trade in futures, swaps and other derivatives regulated by the cftc. changes to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products. in the u.s., the sec previously has proposed and may repropose significant changes to rule 12b-1. invesco believes these proposals could increase operational and compliance costs. the u.k. financial services authority has implemented its retail distribution review ("rdr"), which is expected to reshape the manner in which retail investment funds are sold in the u.k. rdr will change how retail clients pay for investment advice given in respect of all retail investment products, including mutual funds. rdr requires restructuring the manner in which fund distributors are compensated for the services they provide. the eu adopted the alternative investment fund manager directive ("aifmd"); implementing legislation in member states could, among other elements, impose restrictions on the marketing and sale within the eu of private equity and other alternative investment funds sponsored by non-eu managers. various regulators have promulgated or are considering other new disclosure and suitability requirements pertaining to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products, including enhanced standards and requirements pertaining to disclosures made to retail investors at the point of sale. the aifmd will also regulate managers of alternative investment funds not authorized as retail funds under the eu's undertakings for collective investment in transferrable securities directive (ucits). the aifmd may include, among other matters, regulation of compensation policies, capital requirements, leverage, valuation and stakes in eu companies. guidelines regarding the structure and components of compensation, including under the dodd-frank act and various other eu directives. 13 table of contents new requirements pertaining to the trading of securities and other financial instruments, such as swaps and other derivatives; these include reporting requirements, mandated central clearing arrangements, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain financial institutions, other conduct requirements and new taxes or similar fees. new and potentially complex and burdensome tax reporting and tax withholding obligations and related compliance activities pertaining to sponsored investment products, including obligations under the foreign account tax compliance act ("fatca") and similar requirements which may be imposed by other countries. fatca is intended to address tax compliance issues related to us tax payers holding non-us accounts. fatca will require non-us financial institutions to report information about financial accounts held by us persons and impose withholding, documentation and reporting requirements. heightened regulatory examinations and inspection s, including enforcement reviews, and a more aggressive posture regarding commencing enforcement proceedings resulting in fines, penalties and additional remedial activities. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, regulators in the united states and the united kingdom have taken and can be expected to continue to take a more aggressive posture on bringing enforcement proceedings. changes impacting certain other products or markets ( e.g. , retirement savings). enhanced licensing and qualification requirements for key personnel. other additional rules and regulations and disclosure requirements. certain provisions impose additional disclosure burdens on public companies, including invesco. certain proposals could impose requirements for more widespread disclosures of compensation to highly-paid individuals. depending upon the scope of any such requirements, invesco could be disadvantaged in retaining key employees vis- -vis private companies, including hedge fund sponsors. strengthening standards regarding various ethical matters, including enhanced focus of u.s. regulators and law enforcement agencies on compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and the enactment of the u.k. bribery act. other changes impacting the identity or the organizational structure of regulators with supervisory authority over invesco. invesco cannot at this time predict the full impact of potential legal and regulatory changes or possible enforcement proceedings on its business. it is possible such changes could impose new compliance costs or capital requirements or impact invesco in other ways that could have a material adverse impact on invesco's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. similarly, regulatory enforcement actions which impose significant penalties or compliance obligations or which result in significant reputational harm could have similar material adverse effects on invesco. moreover, certain legal or regulatory changes could require us to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur other new constraints or costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. to the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of our products and services or our investment strategies cause or contribute to reduced sales or increased redemptions of our products or impair the investment performance of our products, our aggregate aum and results of operations might be adversely affected. civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions could adversely affect our aum and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business. invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings, including civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions. these actions can arise from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory actions. see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 19 , "commitments and contingencies, for additional information. judgments in civil litigation or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of key individuals or a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. retaining highly skilled technical and management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain clients and retail shareholder accounts. the market for investment management professionals is competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as the investment management industry has experienced growth. the market for investment managers is also increasingly characterized by the movement of investment managers among different firms. our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals with a supportive professional working environment and compensation and benefits that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. however, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of key individuals or significant investment management personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products 14 table of contents to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. if our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income. our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and our good reputation is critical to our business. our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries, investigations or findings of wrongdoing, material errors in public reports, employee dishonesty or other misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or eventually satisfactorily addressed. further, our business requires us to continuously manage actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client or those of invesco. the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected, if we fail - or appear to fail - to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address and manage these risks, but this task can be complex and difficult, and if our procedures and controls fail, our reputation could be damaged. any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our aum, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines could result in damage awards against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. many of the investment management agreements under which we manage assets or provide products or services specify investment guidelines or contractual requirements that invesco is required to observe in the provision of its services. a failure to comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts, any of which could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. we maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to prevent, detect and correct such errors. when an error is detected, we typically will make a payment into the applicable client account to correct it. significant errors could impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, increase commissions paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries, all of which could reduce our profitability. the investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. we continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products. we face strong competition in every market in which we operate. our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. our competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. if these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various distribution channels around the world have also resulted in increased competition. in recent years there have been several instances of industry consolidation, both in the area of distributors and manufacturers of investment products. further consolidation may occur in these areas in the future. the increasing size and market influence of certain distributors of our products and of certain direct competitors may have a negative impact on our ability to compete at the same levels of profitability in the future, should we find ourselves unable to maintain relevance in the markets in which we compete. we may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. we regularly review, and from time to time have discussions with respect to, potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to pursue such transactions, be successful in negotiating the required agreements, or successfully close transactions after signing such agreements. 15 table of contents acquisitions also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if pending transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to closing or integration. following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. there can be no assurance that such sellers will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. our ability to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors. our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. we have received credit ratings of a3/stable and a-/stable from moody's and standard &amp; poor's credit rating agencies, respectively, as of the date hereof. we believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to the fact that our revenues are exposed to equity market volatility and the potential impact from regulatory changes to the industry. additionally, the rating agencies could decide to downgrade the entire investment management industry, based on their perspective of future growth and solvency. material deterioration of these factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit ratings, thereby limiting our ability to generate additional financing. our credit facility borrowing rates are tied to our credit ratings. management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings. a reduction in our long-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, could limit our access to the capital markets, and may result in outflows thereby reducing aum and revenues. continued volatility in global finance markets may also affect our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so. if we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. as of december 31, 2012 , we had outstanding total debt of $1,186.0 million , excluding long-term debt of consolidated investment products, and total equity attributable to common shareholders of $8,188.0 million , excluding retained earnings appropriated for investors in consolidated investment products. the amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient assets or liquidity to repay such amounts in full. our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios. this credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. the breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or due to a significant and prolonged market-driven decline in our operating results) would result in a default under the credit facility. in the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if any indebtedness under the credit facility were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full. changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our net revenues and hinder our growth. we sell a significant portion of our investment products through a variety of financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, regional broker-dealers, banks and financial planners in north america, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and financial organizations in europe and asia. increasing competition for these distribution channels could cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. following the financial crisis, there has been consolidation of banks and broker-dealers, particularly in the u.s., and a limited amount of migration of brokers and financial advisors away from major banks to independent firms focused largely on providing advice. if these trends continue, our distribution costs could increase as a percentage of our revenues generated. additionally, particularly outside of the u.s., certain of the intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. increasingly, investors, particularly in the institutional market, rely on external consultants and other unconflicted third parties for advice on the choice of investment manager. these consultants and third parties tend to exert a significant degree of influence and they may favor a competitor of invesco as better meeting their particular client's 16 table of contents needs. there is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. if one of our major distributors were to cease operations, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources and the consultant community would impair our ability to sell our products, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard confidential and sensitive information. we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations as part of our regular operations. our systems could be attacked by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things, damage our reputation, allow competitors to access our proprietary business information, result in liability for failure to safeguard our clients' data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, or require material capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. our business is vulnerable to deficiencies and failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to breaches and errors, resulting in loss of customers or claims against us or our subsidiaries. the ability to consistently and reliably obtain accurate securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and clients in other accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. in recent periods, illiquid markets for certain types of securities have required increased use of fair value pricing, which is dependent on certain subjective judgments that have the potential to be challenged. any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports, other breaches and errors, and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate customers and potentially give rise to claims against us. our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party service providers. these systems or service providers could suffer deficiencies, failures or interruptions due to various natural or man-made causes, and our back-up procedures and capabilities may not be adequate to avoid extended interruptions in operations. certain of these processes involve a degree of manual input, and thus similar problems could occur from time to time due to human error. if we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems would provide us with an important advantage. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or technology personnel. further, as we strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. although we seek to regularly assess and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the united states and have functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. the largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our aum, is presently denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the united states whose functional currencies are not the u.s. dollar. as a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. we generally do not actively manage our exposure to such effects. consequently, significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the u.k. pound sterling, euro, or canadian dollar, among other currencies, could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results. 17 table of contents the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we have goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to annual impairment reviews. we also have definite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to impairment testing if indicators of impairment are identified. goodwill and intangible assets totaled $7,048.2 million and $1,287.7 million , respectively, at december 31, 2012 ( december 31, 2011 : $6,907.9 million and $1,322.8 million , respectively). we may not realize the value of such assets. we perform impairment reviews of the book values of these assets on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. a variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related assets would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period. see part ii, item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting policies - goodwill and - intangibles, for additional details of our goodwill impairment analysis process. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to shareholders. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda (companies act). the companies act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. under bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances. directors and officers may owe duties to a company's creditors in cases of impending insolvency. directors and officers of a bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. if a director or officer of a bermuda company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. our bye-laws provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to us other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the companies act. under our bye-laws, each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against us or any of our officers, directors or employees. the waiver applies to any action taken by a director, officer or employee, or the failure of such person to take any action, in the performance of his duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the director, officer or employee. this waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our directors, officers and employees unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or to obtain majority representation on our board of directors without the consent of our board. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares under such circumstances. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows. under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. there is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation. 18 table of contents we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. proposals have been introduced in the u.s. congress that, if ultimately enacted, could either limit treaty benefits on certain payments made by our u.s. subsidiaries to non-u.s. affiliates, treat the company as a u.s. corporation and thereby subject the earnings from non-u.s. subsidiaries of the company to u.s. taxation, or both. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the company is primarily exposed to market risk in the form of securities market risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk. aum market price risk the company's investment management revenues are comprised of fees based on a percentage of the value of aum. declines in equity or fixed income security market prices could cause revenues to decline because of lower investment management fees by: causing the value of aum to decrease. causing the returns realized on aum to decrease (impacting performance fees). causing clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments in markets that they perceive to offer greater opportunity and that the company does not serve. causing clients to rebalance assets away from investments that the company manages into investments that the company does not manage. causing clients to reallocate assets away from products that earn higher revenues into products that earn lower revenues. underperformance of client accounts relative to competing products could exacerbate these factors. securities market risk the company has investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes. investments are generally made to establish a track record or to hedge economically exposure to certain deferred compensation plans. the company's exposure to market risk arises from its investments. the following table summarizes the fair values of the investments exposed to market risk and provides a sensitivity analysis of the estimated fair values of those investments, assuming a 20% increase or decrease in fair values: $ in millions carrying value fair value assuming 20% increase fair value assuming 20% decrease december 31, 2012 trading investments: investments related to deferred compensation plans 213.5 256.2 170.8 available-for-sale investments: seed money in affiliated funds 113.4 136.1 90.7 equity method investments 228.2 273.8 182.6 other 10.7 12.8 8.6 total market risk on investments 565.8 678.9 452.7 $ in millions carrying value fair value assuming 20% increase fair value assuming 20% decrease december 31, 2011 trading investments: investments related to deferred compensation plans 184.4 221.3 147.5 available-for-sale investments: seed money in affiliated funds 63.5 76.2 50.8 equity method investments 193.1 231.7 154.5 other 8.2 9.8 6.6 total market risk on investments 449.2 539.0 359.4 67 table of contents interest rate risk interest rate risk relates to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its external debt and cash and cash equivalent investments. on december 31, 2012 , the interest rates on 50.6% of the company's borrowings were fixed for a weighted average period of 9.9 years. borrowings under the credit facility will have floating interest rates. a 1% change in the level of interest rates on current debt levels would change annualized interest expense by $5.9 million and would not have a material impact on the ability of the company to continue to service its indebtedness. the interest rate profile of the financial assets of the company on december 31, 2012 , was: $ in millions carrying value fair value assuming a +1% interest rate change fair value assuming a -1% interest rate change december 31, 2012 available-for-sale investments: * collateralized loan obligations 2.4 2.4 2.4 foreign time deposits 31.3 31.4 31.3 total investments 33.7 33.8 33.7 december 31, 2011 available-for-sale investments: foreign time deposits 32.2 32.3 32.2 total investments 32.2 32.3 32.2 ____________ * other debt securities, as of year ended december 31, 2012, of $6.3 million (year ended december 31, 2011: none) are not included in the table above as they are valued using a cost valuation technique. see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data - note 3 , fair value of assets and liabilities-available-for-sale-investments for more information on other debt securities. the interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the company on december 31 was: $ in millions total floating rate fixed rate weighted average interest rate (%) weighted average period for which rate is fixed (years) 2012 currency: u.s. dollar 1,186.0 586.5 599.5 2.3 % 9.9 2011 currency: u.s. dollar 1,284.7 539.0 745.7 3.8 % 1.4 see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data - note 9 , debt for additional disclosures relating to the u.s. dollar floating and fixed rate obligations. the company's only fixed interest financial assets at december 31, 2012 , are foreign time deposit investments of $31.3 million ( 2011 : $32.2 million). the weighted average interest rate on these investments is 0.77% ( 2011 : 0.80%) and the weighted average time for which the rate is fixed is 0.2 years ( 2011 : 0.2 years). foreign exchange rate risk the company has transactional currency exposures that occur when any of the company's subsidiaries receives or pays cash in a currency different from its functional currency. such exposure arises from sales or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. these exposures are not actively managed. the company also has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets and results of operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risk when translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation into invesco ltd. the company generally does not hedge these exposures; however, during 2012, the company purchased four put option contracts to hedge economically 68 table of contents foreign currency risk on the translation of its pound sterling-denominated earnings into u.s. dollars. the economic hedge is predominantly triggered upon the impact of a significant decline in the pound sterling/u.s. dollar foreign exchange rate, which could arise from a greek euro exit or other major european economic events. see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 3 , "fair value of assets and liabilities - put option contracts, for additional information. the company is exposed to foreign exchange revaluation into the income statement on monetary assets and liabilities that are held by subsidiaries in different functional currencies than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. net foreign exchange revaluation losses were $1.7 million in 2012 ( 2011 : $1.3 million of losses), and are included in general and administrative expenses and other gains and losses, net on the consolidated statements of income. we continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange revaluation. supplementary quarterly financial data the following is selected unaudited consolidated data for invesco ltd. for the quarters indicated: $ in millions, except per share data q412 q312 q212 q112 q411 q311 q211 q111 operating revenues: investment management fees $846.9 $818.0 $780.6 $791.4 $747.6 $779.5 $819.1 $792.3 service and distribution fees 199.4 196.1 187.1 189.0 181.1 189.1 211.4 198.7 performance fees 19.9 3.0 15.4 20.5 23.9 2.6 7.6 3.8 other 26.7 24.3 25.9 32.8 44.5 26.6 31.9 32.5 total operating revenues 1,092.9 1,041.4 1,009.0 1,033.7 997.1 997.8 1,070.0 1,027.3 operating expenses: employee compensation 343.7 330.9 304.6 318.5 316.5 305.5 318.3 305.9 third-party distribution, service and advisory 350.9 327.2 316.6 317.1 301.8 314.4 341.8 324.5 marketing 23.3 26.4 26.6 26.7 21.1 13.1 26.1 25.7 property, office and technology 73.2 69.1 68.5 66.8 66.0 62.7 61.9 64.0 general and administrative 76.4 68.8 88.7 73.3 74.6 69.6 77.6 73.6 transaction and integration 2.6 3.0 1.1 1.5 5.5 4.7 11.3 7.9 total operating expenses 870.1 825.4 806.1 803.9 785.5 770.0 837.0 801.6 operating income 222.8 216.0 202.9 229.8 211.6 227.8 233.0 225.7 other income/(expense): equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 7.9 5.2 6.9 9.7 4.9 8.1 10.8 6.7 interest income 2.7 2.5 2.2 2.4 2.7 3.8 2.4 2.1 interest income of consolidated investment products 52.1 68.7 68.7 69.0 73.6 79.6 79.8 74.2 gains/(losses) of consolidated investment products, net (27.8 ) (25.2 ) 77.2 (121.9 ) 104.4 (93.1 ) (64.7 ) (85.5 ) interest expense (12.7 ) (12.6 ) (13.4 ) (13.6 ) (14.3 ) (15.3 ) (16.0 ) (16.2 ) interest expense of consolidated investment products (33.9 ) (41.9 ) (46.9 ) (45.6 ) (51.8 ) (48.7 ) (46.5 ) (40.0 ) other gains and losses, net (21.0 ) 18.4 (7.7 ) 18.6 54.8 (19.7 ) 6.0 7.9 income before income taxes 190.1 231.1 289.9 148.4 385.9 142.5 204.8 174.9 income tax provision (62.1 ) (74.2 ) (62.3 ) (73.6 ) (76.0 ) (59.1 ) (75.4 ) (75.6 ) net income 128.0 156.9 227.6 74.8 309.9 83.4 129.4 99.3 (gains)/losses attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities, net 30.7 13.7 (73.7 ) 119.1 (107.6 ) 83.5 53.6 78.2 net income attributable to common shareholders $158.7 $170.6 $153.9 $193.9 $202.3 $166.9 $183.0 $177.5 earnings per share*: - basic $0.35 $0.38 $0.34 $0.43 $0.44 $0.36 $0.39 $0.38 - diluted $0.35 $0.38 $0.34 $0.43 $0.44 $0.36 $0.39 $0.38 average shares outstanding*: - basic 449.9 451.3 453.8 454.3 456.8 459.5 465.5 469.9 - diluted 451.2 452.8 455.3 455.9 458.3 461.0 467.4 472.1 dividends declared per share: $0.1725 $0.1725 $0.1725 $0.1225 $0.1225 $0.1225 $0.1225 $0.1100 ____________ * the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may differ from the annual earnings per share amounts due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in interim periods. 69 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively affect invesco's revenues, operations, financial condition and liquidity. in recent years, capital and credit markets have experienced substantial volatility. in this regard: in the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure or disruptions in the global financial system or additional failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in aum and severe liquidity or valuation issues in managed investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and retention and ability to attract key employees. additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. in addition to the impact of the market volatility on client portfolios, illiquidity and/or volatility of the global fixed income and/or equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows or to timely meet client redemption requests. our money market funds have always maintained a $1.00 net asset value (nav); however, we do not guarantee such level. market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could affect their navs. 10 table of contents if the nav of one of our money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in aum, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. regulators in the u.s. have proposed mandating a variable ( floating ) nav for money market funds. even if legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts continue to stabilize the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. we may not adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in global financial markets. if we are unable to effect appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace, our profitability, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected by any reduction in aum as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. we derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of aum. aum may decline for various reasons. for any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin may decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses remain fixed. factors that could decrease aum (and therefore revenues) include the following: declines in the market value of the assets in the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which our aum are concentrated. approximately 49% of our total aum were invested in equity securities and approximately 51% were invested in fixed income and other investments at december 31, 2013 . our aum as of january 31, 2014 were $764.9 billion . we cannot predict whether volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our aum are concentrated. any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin. redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in funds and accounts in general or in the market segments on which invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance of the funds and accounts managed by invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales, increased redemptions of fund shares, and the loss of private institutional accounts, with corresponding decreases in our revenues. failure of our funds and accounts to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, stable return accounts, and certain etfs. our revenues may decline if clients continue to shift their investments to lower fee accounts. on october 15, 2013, the company announced that the head of u.k. equities, neil woodford, will be leaving on april 29, 2014. mark barnett will succeed mr. woodford as head of u.k. equities. as of december 31, 2013, mr. woodford was the named lead manager for u.k. equity aum totaling $46.6 billion. between october 15, 2013 and december 31, 2013, u.k. equity income aum experienced net outflows of $4.8 billion. investments in international markets . investment products that we manage may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization, asset confiscation and changes in legislation related to non-u.s. ownership. international trading markets, particularly emerging markets and frontier markets, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the u.s. 11 table of contents our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time. substantially all of our revenues are derived from investment advisory agreements. investment advisory agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days' notice. agreements with u.s. mutual funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the event of an assignment (as defined in the investment company act of 1940, as amended), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund's board of directors or trustees, as required by law. in addition, the boards of trustees or directors of certain other fund accounts generally may terminate these investment advisory agreements upon written notice for any reason. mutual fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of aum. any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or aum, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility. certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. these redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. in addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of fixed income investments and fixed income derivatives held in various investment portfolios and other products. thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from money market portfolios and from other fixed income products. if securities within a money market portfolio default or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its nav. although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining nav. some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. additionally, at december 31, 2013 , we have $28.2 million invested in invesco mortgage capital inc., $38.4 million of equity at risk invested in our collateralized loan obligation products, and $100.3 million seed money in fixed income funds, the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates. performance fees may increase revenue and earnings volatility. a portion of the company's revenues is derived from performance fees on investment advisory assignments. performance fees represented $55.9 million , or 1.2%, of total revenue for the year ended december 31, 2013. in most cases, performance fees are based on relative or absolute investment returns, although in some cases they are based on achieving specific service standards. generally, the company is entitled to performance fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. if these targets are not exceeded, performance fees for that period will not be earned and, if targets are based on cumulative returns, the company may not earn performance fees in future periods. performance fees will vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns and the timing of revenue recognition, causing earnings to be more volatile. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we, and the products and accounts that we manage, have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, clearing organizations, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. many of these transactions expose us or the funds and accounts that we manage to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty. while we regularly conduct assessments of such risk posed by our counterparties, the risk of non-performance by such parties is subject to sudden swings in the financial and credit markets. 12 table of contents our financial condition and liquidity would be adversely affected by losses on our seed capital and partnership investments . the company has investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including, but not limited to equities, fixed income products, commoditized, derivatives, and similar financial instruments, private equity, and real estate. investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks, or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed capital and partnership investments. a reduction in the value of these investments may adversely affect our liquidity. as of december 31, 2013, the company had $528.7 million in seed capital and co-investments, including direct investments in consolidated investment products (cip) and consolidated sponsored investment products (csip). we operate in an industry that is highly regulated in many countries, and any enforcement action or adverse changes in the laws or regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict our business activities, conduct examinations, risk assessments, investigations and capital adequacy reviews, and impose remedial programs to address perceived deficiencies. subsidiaries operating in the european union ( eu ) also are subject to various eu directives, which are implemented by member state national legislation. as a result of regulatory oversight, we could face requirements which negatively impact the way in which we conduct business, impose additional capital requirements and/or involve enforcement actions which could lead to sanctions up to and including the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel, or the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities, or in private litigation against us, could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. a substantial portion of the products and services we offer are regulated by the securities and exchange commission (sec), financial industry regulatory authority (finra), the commodities future trading commission (cftc), the national futures association (nfa) and the office of the comptroller of the currency (occ) in the united states and by the financial conduct authority (fca) and the prudential regulatory authority (pra) in the united kingdom. our operations elsewhere in the world are regulated by similar regulatory organizations. the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen a significant increase in regulation in recent years. various changes in laws and regulations have been enacted or otherwise developed in multiple jurisdictions globally in response to the crisis in the financial markets that began in 2007. various other proposals remain under consideration by legislators, regulators, and other government officials and other public policy commentators. certain enacted provisions and certain other proposals are potentially far reaching and, depending upon their implementation, could have a material impact on invesco's business. while many of these provisions appear to address perceived problems in the banking sector, certain of the provisions will or may be applied more broadly and affect other financial services companies, including investment managers. we may be adversely affected as a result of the new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. to the extent that existing regulations are amended or future regulations are adopted that reduce the sale, or increase the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affect the investment performance of our products, our aggregate aum and our revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, regulatory changes have imposed and may continue to impose additional costs, which could negatively impact our profitability. in the united states, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ) was signed into law on july 21, 2010. while invesco does not believe that the dodd-frank act will fundamentally change the investment management industry or cause invesco to reconsider its basic strategy, certain provisions have required, and other provisions will or may require, us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also have increased regulatory burdens and related compliance costs, and will or may continue to do so. furthermore, certain provisions, including the so-called "volker rule," may have unintended adverse consequences on the liquidity or structure of the financial markets. in addition, the scope and impact of many provisions of the dodd-frank act will be determined by implementing regulations, some of which require lengthy proposal and promulgation periods. moreover, the dodd-frank act mandated many regulatory studies, some of which pertain directly to the investment management industry, which could lead to additional legislation or regulation. as a result of these uncertainties regarding implementation of the dodd-frank act and such other future potential legislative or regulatory changes, the full impact of the dodd-frank act on the investment management industry and invesco cannot be fully understood at this time. 13 table of contents the european union has promulgated or is considering various new or revised directives pertaining to financial services, including investment managers. such directives are progressing at various stages, and have been, are being, or will or would be implemented by national legislation in member states. as with the dodd-frank act, invesco does not believe implementation of these directives will fundamentally change our industry or cause us to reconsider our fundamental strategy, but certain provisions have required, and other provisions will or may require, us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also have increased regulatory burdens and compliance costs, and will or may continue to do so. certain provisions may have unintended adverse consequences on the liquidity or structure of the financial markets. similar developments are being implemented or considered in other jurisdictions where we do business; such developments could have similar effects. developments under regulatory changes may include, without limitation: expanded regulation over investment management firms. new or increased capital requirements and related regulation. additional change to the regulation of money market funds in the u.s. and the eu, including in the u.s. mandating a floating net asset value (nav) or the imposition of redemption limits or gates for certain types of money market funds, and in the eu, requiring capital buffers. limitations on holdings of certain commodities under proposed regulations of the cftc which could result in capacity constraints for our balanced risk products and other products that employ commodities as part of their investment strategy. changes to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products. in the u.s., the sec previously has proposed and may repropose significant changes to rule 12b-1. invesco believes these proposals could increase operational and compliance costs. the u.k. financial conduct authority has implemented its retail distribution review ("rdr"), which reshaped the manner in which retail investment funds are sold in the u.k. rdr changed how retail clients pay for investment advice given in respect of all retail investment products, including mutual funds. rdr restructured the manner in which fund distributors are compensated for the services they provide. the eu has implemented the alternative investment fund manager directive ("aifmd"); implementing legislation in member states has, among other elements, imposed restrictions on the marketing and sale within the eu of private equity and other alternative investment funds sponsored by non-eu managers. various regulators promulgated or are considering other new disclosure and suitability requirements pertaining to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products, including enhanced standards and requirements pertaining to disclosures made to retail investors at the point of sale. the aifmd also regulates managers of alternative investment funds not authorized as retail funds under the eu's undertakings for collective investment in transferrable securities directive (ucits). the aifmd includes, among other matters, capital requirements, leverage, valuation and stakes in eu companies. guidelines regarding the structure and components of compensation, including under the dodd-frank act, aifmd and various other eu directives. new requirements pertaining to the trading of securities and other financial instruments, such as swaps and other derivatives, including certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and european market infrastructure regulation; these include a significant amount of new reporting requirements, designated trading venues, mandated central clearing arrangements, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain financial institutions, other conduct requirements and potentially new taxes or similar fees. new and potentially complex and burdensome tax reporting and tax withholding obligations and related compliance activities pertaining to managed investment products, including obligations under the foreign account tax compliance act ("fatca") and similar requirements which have been or may be imposed by other countries. fatca is intended to address tax compliance issues related to u.s. tax payers holding accounts outside of the u.s. fatca requires non-u.s. financial institutions to report information about financial accounts held by u.s. persons and impose withholding, documentation and reporting requirements. broadening of the reach of regulatory bodies into areas where they have not been previously (e.g. the required registration of hedge funds and other private funds with the sec). heightened regulatory examinations and inspections, including enforcement reviews, and a more aggressive posture regarding commencing enforcement proceedings resulting in fines, penalties and additional remedial activities to firms and to individuals. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, regulators in the united states and the united kingdom have taken and can be expected to continue to take a more aggressive posture on bringing enforcement proceedings. enhanced licensing and qualification requirements for key personnel. other additional rules and regulations and disclosure requirements. certain provisions impose additional disclosure burdens on public companies. certain proposals could impose requirements for more widespread disclosures of compensation to highly-paid individuals. depending upon the scope of any such requirements, invesco could be disadvantaged in retaining key employees vis- -vis private companies, including hedge fund sponsors. 14 table of contents strengthening standards regarding various ethical matters, including enhanced focus of u.s. regulators and law enforcement agencies on compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and the enactment of the u.k. bribery act. other changes impacting the identity or the organizational structure of regulators with supervisory authority over invesco. the enforcement division of the fca is conducting an ongoing review of certain matters pertaining to the company's compliance with fca rules and regulations for the period may 2008 to november 2012. the company is cooperating fully with the fca review and is seeking to resolve this investigation on a consensual basis, although there can be no assurance that the company's efforts to do so will succeed. the company believes that its current systems and controls now are adequate and in compliance with applicable regulations. the company is not able at this time to estimate the amount of any potential fine arising from the resolution of this matter; however, the company believes that any fine would not have a material adverse effect on its financial position or liquidity. invesco cannot at this time predict the full impact of potential legal and regulatory changes or possible other enforcement proceedings on its business. it is possible such changes could impose new compliance costs or capital requirements or impact invesco in other ways that could have a material adverse impact on invesco's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. similarly, regulatory enforcement actions which impose significant penalties or compliance obligations or which result in significant reputational harm could have similar material adverse effects on invesco. moreover, certain legal or regulatory changes could require us to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur other new constraints or costs, including the investment of significant management time and resources in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. to the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of our products and services or our investment strategies cause or contribute to reduced sales or increased redemptions of our products or impair the investment performance of our products, our aggregate aum and results of operations might be adversely affected. net capital requirements may impede the business operations of our subsidiaries. certain of our subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum levels of capital and such capital requirements may be increased from time-to-time. these and other similar provisions of applicable law may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. at december 31, 2013 , our minimum net capital requirements aggregated to approximately $282 million . a sub-group of invesco subsidiaries, including all of our regulated eu subsidiaries, is subject to consolidated capital requirements under eu directives, and capital is maintained within this sub-group to satisfy these regulations. at december 31, 2013 , the european sub-group had cash and cash equivalent balances of $632.3 million ( december 31, 2012 : $528.3 million ). complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the european sub-group. as a result of corporate restructuring and regulatory requirements, certain of these eu subsidiaries may be required to limit their dividends to the parent company, invesco ltd. civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions could adversely affect our aum and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business. invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings, including civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions. these actions can arise from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory actions. see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 18 , "commitments and contingencies, for additional information. judgments in civil litigation or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. the enforcement division of the fca is conducting an ongoing review of certain matters pertaining to the company's compliance with fca rules and regulations for the period may 2008 to november 2012. the company is cooperating fully with the fca review and is seeking to resolve this investigation on a consensual basis, although there can be no assurance that the company's efforts to do so will succeed. the company believes that its current systems and controls now are adequate and in compliance with applicable regulations. the company is not able at this time to estimate the amount of any potential fine arising from the resolution of this matter; however, the company believes that any fine would not have a material adverse effect on its financial position or liquidity. 15 table of contents we are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states. we have offices in numerous countries and many cross border and local proprietary funds that are domiciled outside the united states and may face difficulties in managing, operating and marketing our international operations. our international operations expose us to the political and economic consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions and subject us to expropriation risks, expatriation controls and potential adverse tax consequences. our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of key individuals or a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. retaining highly skilled technical and management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain clients and retail shareholder accounts. the market for investment management professionals is competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as the investment management industry has experienced growth. the market for investment managers is also increasingly characterized by the movement of investment managers among different firms. our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals with a supportive professional working environment and compensation and benefits that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. however, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of key individuals or significant investment management personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. on october 15, 2013, the company announced that the head of u.k. equities, neil woodford, will be leaving on april 29, 2014. mark barnett will succeed mr. woodford as head of u.k. equities. as of december 31, 2013, mr. woodford was the named lead manager for u.k. equity aum totaling $46.6 billion. between october 15, 2013 and december 31, 2013, u.k. equity income aum experienced net outflows of $4.8 billion. if our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income. our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and our good reputation is critical to our business. our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries, investigations or findings of wrongdoing, material errors in public reports, employee dishonesty or other misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or eventually satisfactorily addressed. our business also requires us to continuously manage actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client or those of invesco. the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected, if we fail - or appear to fail - to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address and manage these risks, but this task can be complex and difficult, and if our procedures and controls fail, our reputation could be damaged. any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our aum, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines could result in damage awards against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. many of the investment management agreements under which we manage assets or provide products or services specify investment guidelines or contractual requirements that invesco is required to observe in the provision of its services. a failure to comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts, any of which could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. we maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to prevent, detect and correct such errors. when an error is detected, we typically will make a payment into the applicable client account to correct it. significant errors could impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 16 table of contents competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, increase commissions paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries, all of which could reduce our profitability. the investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. we continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products. we face strong competition in every market in which we operate. our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. our competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. if these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various distribution channels around the world have also resulted in increased competition. in recent years there have been several instances of industry consolidation, both in the area of distributors and manufacturers of investment products. further consolidation may occur in these areas in the future. the increasing size and market influence of certain distributors of our products and of certain direct competitors may have a negative impact on our ability to compete at the same levels of profitability in the future, should we find ourselves unable to maintain relevance in the markets in which we compete. we may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. we regularly review, and from time to time have discussions with and engage in, potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to pursue such transactions, be successful in negotiating the required agreements, or successfully close transactions after signing such agreements. acquisitions also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if pending transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to closing or integration. following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. there can be no assurance that such sellers will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. our ability to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors. our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. we have received credit ratings of a3/stable and a-/positive from moody's and standard &amp; poor's ratings services, respectively, as of the date hereof. we believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to the fact that our revenues are exposed to equity market volatility and the potential impact from regulatory changes to the industry. additionally, the rating agencies could decide to downgrade the entire investment management industry, based on their perspective of future growth and solvency. material deterioration of these factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit ratings, thereby limiting our ability to generate additional financing. our credit facility borrowing rates are tied to our credit ratings. management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings. a reduction in our long-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, could limit our access to the capital markets, and may result in outflows thereby reducing aum and revenues. volatility in global finance markets may also affect our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so. if we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. 17 table of contents our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. as of december 31, 2013 , we had outstanding total debt of $1,588.6 million , excluding debt of cip, and total equity attributable to common shareholders of $8,392.6 million , excluding retained earnings appropriated for investors in cip. the amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient assets or liquidity to repay such amounts in full. our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios. this credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. the breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or due to a significant and prolonged market-driven decline in our operating results) would result in a default under the credit facility. in the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if any indebtedness under the credit facility were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full. changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our net revenues and hinder our growth. we sell substantially all of our retail investment products through a variety of third party financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, regional broker-dealers, banks and financial planners in north america, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and supermarket platforms in europe and asia. no single one of these intermediaries is material to our business. increasing competition for these distribution channels could nevertheless cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. following the financial crisis, there has been consolidation of banks and broker-dealers, particularly in the u.s., and a limited amount of migration of brokers and financial advisors away from major banks to independent firms focused largely on providing advice. if these trends continue, our distribution costs could increase as a percentage of our revenues generated. additionally, particularly outside of the u.s., certain of the third party intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. increasingly, investors, particularly in the institutional market, rely on external consultants and other unconflicted third parties for advice on the choice of investment manager. these consultants and third parties tend to exert a significant degree of influence over their clients' choices, and they may favor a competitor of invesco as better meeting their particular clients' needs. there is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. if a material portion of our distributors were to cease operations, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources and the consultant community would impair our ability to sell our products, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard confidential and sensitive information. we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations as part of our regular operations. our systems could be attacked by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things, damage our reputation, allow competitors to access our proprietary business information, result in liability for failure to safeguard our clients' data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, or require material capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. 18 table of contents our business is vulnerable to deficiencies and failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to breaches and errors, resulting in loss of customers or claims against us or our subsidiaries. the ability to consistently and reliably obtain accurate securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and clients in other accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. certain types of securities may experience liquidity constraints that would require increased use of fair value pricing, which is dependent on certain subjective judgments that have the potential to be challenged. any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports, other breaches and errors, and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate customers and potentially give rise to claims against us. our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party service providers. these systems or service providers could suffer deficiencies, failures or interruptions due to various natural or man-made causes, and our back-up procedures and capabilities may not be adequate to avoid extended interruptions in operations. certain of these processes involve a degree of manual input, and thus similar problems could occur from time to time due to human error. if we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we believe our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems should mitigate adverse impacts. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or technology personnel. further, as we strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. although we seek to assess regularly and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the united states and have functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. the largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our aum, is presently denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the united states whose functional currencies are not the u.s. dollar. as a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. we generally do not actively manage our exposure to such effects. consequently, significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the u.k. pound sterling, euro, or canadian dollar, among other currencies, could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results. the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we have goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to annual impairment reviews. we also have definite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to impairment testing if indicators of impairment are identified. goodwill and intangible assets totaled $6,867.3 million and $1,263.7 million , respectively, at december 31, 2013 ( december 31, 2012 : $7,048.2 million and $1,287.7 million , respectively). we may not realize the value of such assets. we perform impairment reviews of the book values of these assets on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. a variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related assets would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting policies - goodwill and - intangibles, for additional details of our goodwill impairment analysis process. 19 table of contents bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to shareholders. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a company incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda (companies act). the companies act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. under bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances described in the following paragraph. directors and officers may owe duties to a company's creditors in cases of impending insolvency. directors and officers of a bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. if a director or officer of a bermuda company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of bermuda. however, the bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow english case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in a company's name to remedy a wrong done to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the company's corporate power or is illegal or would result in the violation of the memorandum of association or bye-laws. furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of shareholders than actually approved it. under our bye-laws, each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against us or any of our officers, directors or employees. the waiver applies to any action taken by a director, officer or employee, or the failure of such person to take any action, in the performance of his duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the director, officer or employee. this waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our directors, officers and employees unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. our bye-laws also provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to us other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the companies act. because we are incorporated in bermuda, it may be difficult for shareholders to serve process or enforce judgments against us or our directors and officers. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. in addition, certain of our officers and directors reside in countries outside the united states. a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these officers and directors are or may be located outside the united states. investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the united states on our directors and officers who reside outside the united states or recovering against us or these directors and officers on judgments of u.s. courts based on civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws, even though we have appointed an agent in the united states to receive service of process. further, it may not be possible, in bermuda or in countries other than the united states where we have assets, to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us based on the civil liability provisions of u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised by our legal advisors in bermuda that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. some remedies available under the laws of the united states or the states therein, including some remedies available under the u.s. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in bermuda courts because they may be found to be contrary to bermuda public policy. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the united states based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in other countries other than the united states. 20 table of contents we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or to obtain majority representation on our board of directors without the consent of our board. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares under such circumstances. specifically, our bye-laws contain the following provisions that may impede or delay an unsolicited takeover of the company: we are prohibited from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination (as defined in our bye-laws) with any interested shareholder (as defined in our bye-laws) for three years following the date that the shareholder became an interested shareholder; our board of directors, without further shareholder action, is permitted by our bye-laws to issue preference shares, in one or more series, and determine by resolution any designations, preferences, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions, or special or relative rights of an additional series. the rights of preferred shareholders may supersede the rights of common shareholders; our board of directors is classified into three classes with the election years of the members of each class staggered such that the members of only one of the three classes are elected each year; shareholders may only remove directors for cause (defined in our bye-laws to mean willful misconduct or gross negligence which is materially injurious to the company), fraud or embezzlement, or a conviction of, or a plea of guilty or no contest to, a felony; our board of directors is authorized to expand its size and fill vacancies; and shareholders cannot act by written consent unless the consent is unanimous. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows. under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. there is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation. we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. proposals have been introduced in the u.s. congress that, if ultimately enacted, could either limit treaty benefits on certain payments made by our u.s. subsidiaries to non-u.s. affiliates, treat the company as a u.s. corporation and thereby subject the earnings from non-u.s. subsidiaries of the company to u.s. taxation, or both. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the company is primarily exposed to market risk in the form of aum market price risk, securities market risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk. aum market price risk the company's investment management revenues are comprised of fees based on the value of aum. declines in the market prices of equity and fixed income securities, commodities and derivatives, or other similar financial instruments held in client portfolios could cause revenues to decline because of lower investment management fees by: causing the value of aum to decrease. causing the returns realized on aum to decrease (impacting performance fees). 72 table of contents causing clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments in markets that they perceive to offer greater opportunity and that the company does not serve. causing clients to rebalance assets away from investments that the company manages into investments that the company does not manage. causing clients to reallocate assets away from products that earn higher revenues into products that earn lower revenues. underperformance of client accounts relative to competing products could exacerbate these factors. assuming the revenue yield on aum for the year remains unchanged, a 10% decline in the average aum for the year would result in a corresponding decline in revenue. certain expenses, including distribution and compensation expenses, may not vary in proportion with the changes in the market value of aum. as such, the impact on operating margin or net income of a decline in the market values of aum may be greater or less than the percentage decline in the market value of aum. securities market risk the company has investments in managed investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes. investments are generally made to establish a track record for a new fund or investment vehicle or to hedge economically exposure to certain deferred compensation plans. the company's exposure to market risk from financial instruments measured at fair value arises from its investments. the following table summarizes the impact of a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values of these investments: december 31, 2013 $ in millions fair value fair value assuming 10% increase fair value assuming 10% decrease available-for-sale investments (a) 244.1 268.5 219.7 trading investments (b) 253.0 278.3 227.7 total assets measured at fair value exposed to market risk 497.1 546.8 447.4 direct investments in csip and cip (c) 147.1 161.8 132.4 total liabilities measured at fair value exposed to market risk (d) (2.0 ) (2.2 ) (1.8 ) a. any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale investments are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, until the investment is sold or otherwise disposed of, or if the investment is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in income. the company evaluates the carrying value of investments for impairment on a quarterly basis. in its impairment analysis, the company takes into consideration numerous criteria, including the duration and extent of any decline in fair value, and the intent and ability of the company to hold the security for a period of time sufficient for a recovery in value. if the decline in value is determined to be other-than-temporary, the carrying value of the security is generally written down to fair value through the consolidated statement of income. if such a 10% increase or decrease in fair values were to occur, it would not result in an other-than-temporary impairment charge that would be material to our pre-tax earnings. b. if such a 10% increase or decrease in fair values were to occur, the change attributable to $253.0 million of these trading investments would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings. at december 31, 2013, $249.7 million of these trading investments are held to hedge economically certain deferred compensation plans in which the company participates. the company recognizes as compensation expense the appreciation or depreciation of the compensation liability over the award's vesting period in proportion to the vested amount of the award. the company immediately recognizes the appreciation or depreciation of these investments, which is included in other gains and losses. this creates a timing difference between the recognition of the compensation expense and the investment gain or loss impacting net income, which will reverse and will offset to zero over the life of the award at the end of the multi-year vesting period. c. these represent invesco's direct investments in investment products that are consolidated. upon consolidation, these direct investments are eliminated, and the assets and liabilities of the cip and csip are consolidated in the consolidated balance sheet, together with a noncontrolling interest balance representing the portion of the cip and csip owned by third parties. if a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values of invesco's direct investments in cip and csip were to occur, it would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our net income attributable to common shareholders. 73 table of contents d. liabilities measured at fair value include uit-related financial instruments sold, not yet purchased and a note payable. see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 2 , "fair value of assets and liabilities," for additional details. cash balances invested in money market funds of $447.8 million have been excluded from the table above. these are valued under the market approach at the net asset value of the underlying funds, which is maintained at $1. assets held for policyholders of $1,416.0 million have also been excluded from the table above. the entity holds assets that are managed for its clients on its balance sheet with an equal and offsetting liability to the policyholders, which is linked to the value of the investments. the investments and the policyholder payables held by this business are carried in the consolidated balance sheets as separate account assets and liabilities at fair value in accordance with asc topic 944, financial services - insurance. changes in fair value are recorded and offset to zero in the consolidated statements of income in other operating revenues. increases or decreases in the fair value of these investments will therefore have no impact to our pre-tax earnings. interest rate risk interest rate risk relates to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its external debt and cash and cash equivalent investments. on december 31, 2013 , the interest rates on 100.0% of the company's borrowings were fixed for a weighted average period of 14.6 years. borrowings under the credit facility will have floating interest rates. the interest rate profile of the financial assets of the company on december 31, 2013 , was: december 31, 2013 $ in millions carrying value fair value assuming a +1% interest rate change fair value assuming a -1% interest rate change available-for-sale investments: * collateralized loan obligations 4.0 4.0 4.0 foreign time deposits 28.8 29.1 28.8 total investments 32.8 33.1 32.8 ____________ * other debt securities, as of the year ended december 31, 2013 , of $6.3 million are not included in the table above as they are valued using a cost valuation technique. see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data - note 2 , fair value of assets and liabilities-available-for-sale-investments for more information on other debt securities. the interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the company on december 31 was: $ in millions december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 long-term debt fixed rate 1,588.6 599.5 floating rate 586.5 total 1,588.6 1,186.0 weighted average interest rate percentage 4.0 % 2.3 % weighted average period for which rate is fixed in years 14.6 9.9 see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 8 , debt for additional disclosures relating to the u.s. dollar floating and fixed rate obligations. the company's only fixed interest financial assets at december 31, 2013 , are foreign time deposit investments of $28.8 million ( 2012 : $31.3 million ). the weighted average interest rate on these investments is 0.68% ( 2012 : 0.77% ) and the weighted average time for which the rate is fixed is 0.2 years ( 2012 : 0.2 years). foreign exchange rate risk the company has transactional currency exposures that occur when any of the company's subsidiaries receive or pay cash in a currency different from its functional currency. such exposure arises from sales or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. these exposures are not actively managed. 74 table of contents the company also has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets and results of operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risk when translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation into invesco ltd. the company generally does not hedge these exposures; however, during 2012, the company began purchasing put option contracts to hedge economically foreign currency risk on the translation of its pound sterling-denominated earnings into u.s. dollars. the economic hedge is predominantly triggered upon the impact of a significant decline in the pound sterling/u.s. dollar foreign exchange rate, which could arise as a result of european economic uncertainty. see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 2 , "fair value of assets and liabilities - put option contracts, for additional information. the company is exposed to foreign exchange revaluation into the consolidated statements of income on monetary assets and liabilities that are held by subsidiaries in different functional currencies than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. net foreign exchange revaluation losses were $0.8 million in 2013 ( 2012 : $1.7 million of losses), and are included in general and administrative expenses and other gains and losses, net on the consolidated statements of income. we continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange revaluation. 75 table of contents supplementary quarterly financial data the following is selected unaudited consolidated data for invesco ltd. for the quarters indicated: 2013 2012 $ in millions, except per share data q4 q3 q2 q1 q4 q3 q2 q1 operating revenues: investment management fees 955.1 914.4 885.5 844.6 818.2 790.6 753.2 765.8 service and distribution fees 230.1 220.7 215.7 206.3 199.5 196.0 187.1 189.0 performance fees 8.7 5.1 6.0 36.1 2.4 3.0 15.6 20.4 other 31.2 31.6 28.3 25.2 26.6 24.3 25.9 32.8 total operating revenues 1,225.1 1,171.8 1,135.5 1,112.2 1,046.7 1,013.9 981.8 1,008.0 operating expenses: employee compensation 333.4 330.3 324.1 341.5 322.0 315.2 288.3 302.5 third-party distribution, service and advisory 396.2 380.9 366.0 346.1 350.0 326.2 315.6 316.4 marketing 30.0 22.6 23.8 22.2 23.1 26.3 26.4 26.4 property, office and technology 85.8 71.9 68.6 66.5 70.1 66.1 65.3 63.6 general and administrative 86.4 80.1 77.3 67.5 73.4 66.2 85.3 71.2 transaction and integration 1.8 1.4 2.6 3.0 1.1 1.5 total operating expenses 931.8 885.8 861.6 845.2 841.2 803.0 782.0 781.6 operating income 293.3 286.0 273.9 267.0 205.5 210.9 199.8 226.4 other income/(expense): equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 10.2 10.3 6.9 8.1 7.9 5.2 6.9 9.7 interest and dividend income 3.3 2.4 2.1 2.2 2.7 2.5 2.2 2.4 interest expense (15.2 ) (9.7 ) (10.0 ) (9.7 ) (12.7 ) (12.6 ) (13.4 ) (13.6 ) other gains and losses, net (18.9 ) 3.4 0.4 17.7 (21.0 ) 18.4 (7.7 ) 18.6 other income/(loss) of csip, net 3.5 (0.6 ) cip: interest and dividend income of cip 42.5 46.5 50.7 50.3 52.1 68.7 68.7 69.0 interest expense of cip (26.5 ) (33.5 ) (30.6 ) (32.7 ) (33.9 ) (41.9 ) (46.9 ) (45.6 ) other gains/(losses) of cip, net 46.4 38.2 (1.6 ) (21.1 ) (27.8 ) (25.2 ) 77.2 (121.9 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes 338.6 343.0 291.8 281.8 172.8 226.0 286.8 145.0 income tax provision (74.2 ) (92.9 ) (83.5 ) (86.3 ) (55.6 ) (72.3 ) (61.2 ) (72.3 ) income from continuing operations, net of taxes 264.4 250.1 208.3 195.5 117.2 153.7 225.6 72.7 income from discontinued operations, net of taxes 66.4 (1.4 ) (4.6 ) 4.1 10.8 3.2 2.0 2.1 net income 330.8 248.7 203.7 199.6 128.0 156.9 227.6 74.8 (gains)/losses attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities, net (43.4 ) (20.6 ) (1.1 ) 22.6 30.7 13.7 (73.7 ) 119.1 net income attributable to common shareholders 287.4 228.1 202.6 222.2 158.7 170.6 153.9 193.9 earnings per share*: basic earnings per share from continuing operations $0.50 $0.51 $0.46 $0.49 $0.33 $0.37 $0.33 $0.42 earnings per share from discontinued operations $0.15 $ ($0.01 ) $0.01 $0.02 $0.01 $ $ basic earnings per share $0.65 $0.51 $0.45 $0.50 $0.35 $0.38 $0.34 $0.43 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $0.50 $0.51 $0.46 $0.49 $0.33 $0.37 $0.33 $0.42 earnings per share from discontinued operations $0.15 $ ($0.01 ) $0.01 $0.02 $0.01 $ $ diluted earnings per share $0.64 $0.51 $0.45 $0.49 $0.35 $0.38 $0.34 $0.43 average shares outstanding*: - basic 445.0 447.9 449.1 447.8 449.9 451.3 453.8 454.3 - diluted 445.9 448.8 450.1 449.0 451.2 452.8 455.3 455.9 dividends declared per share: $0.2250 $0.2250 $0.2250 $0.1725 $0.1725 $0.1725 $0.1725 $0.1225 ____________ * the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may differ from the annual earnings per share amounts due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in interim periods. 76 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively affect invesco's revenues, operations, financial condition and liquidity. in recent years, capital and credit markets have experienced substantial volatility. in this regard: in the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure or disruptions in the global financial system or failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in aum and severe liquidity or valuation issues in managed investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and retention and ability to attract key employees. additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. in addition to the impact of the market volatility on client portfolios, illiquidity and/or volatility of the global fixed income and/or equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows or to timely meet client redemption requests. our money market funds have always maintained a net asset value (nav) of $1.00 per share; however, we do not guarantee such level. market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could affect their navs. 10 table of contents if the nav of one of our money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in aum, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. the u.s. will soon require a variable ( floating ) nav for institutional money market funds. even if central bank, legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts continue to stabilize the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. we may not adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in global financial markets. if we are unable to effect appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace, our profitability, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected by any reduction in aum as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. we derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of aum. aum may decline for various reasons. for any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin likely would decline by a greater proportion because a majority of expenses remain fixed. factors that could decrease aum (and therefore revenues) include the following: declines in the market value of the assets in the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which our aum are concentrated. approximately 49% of our total aum were invested in equity securities and approximately 52% were invested in fixed income and other investments at december 31, 2014 . our aum as of january 31, 2015 were $786.5 billion . we cannot predict whether volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our aum are concentrated. any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin. redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in funds and accounts in general or in the market segments on which invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance of the funds and accounts managed by invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales, increased redemptions of fund shares and the loss of private institutional accounts, with corresponding decreases in our revenues. failure of our funds and accounts to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and other alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, stable return accounts, and certain etfs. our revenues may decline if clients continue to shift their investments to lower fee accounts. in addition, the loss of key personnel or significant investment management professionals could reduce the attractiveness of our products to current and potential clients and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. investments in international markets . investment products that we manage may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization and asset confiscation. international trading markets, particularly emerging markets and frontier markets, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the developed world. 11 table of contents our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time. substantially all of our revenues are derived from investment advisory agreements. investment advisory agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days' notice. agreements with u.s. mutual funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the event of an assignment (as defined in the investment company act of 1940, as amended), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund's board of trustees or directors, as required by law. in addition, the boards of trustees or directors of certain other fund accounts generally may terminate these investment advisory agreements upon written notice for any reason. mutual fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of aum. any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or aum, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility. certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. these redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. in addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of fixed income investments and fixed income derivatives held in various investment portfolios and other products. thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from money market portfolios and from other fixed income products. if securities within a money market portfolio default or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its nav. although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining nav. some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. additionally, at december 31, 2014 , we have $29.7 million invested in invesco mortgage capital inc., $57.4 million of equity at risk invested in our collateralized loan obligation products, and $218.7 million of seed money in fixed income funds, the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates. performance fees may increase revenue and earnings volatility. a portion of the company's revenues is derived from performance fees on investment advisory assignments. performance fees represented $61.1 million , or 1.2%, of total operating revenues for the year ended december 31, 2014 . in most cases, performance fees are based on relative or absolute investment returns, although in some cases they are based on achieving specific service standards. generally, the company is entitled to performance fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. if these targets are not exceeded, performance fees for that period will not be earned and, if targets are based on cumulative returns, the company may not earn performance fees in future periods. performance fees will vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns and the timing of revenue recognition, causing earnings to be more volatile. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we, and the products and accounts that we manage, have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, clearing organizations, hedge funds, and other institutional clients. many of these transactions expose us or the funds and accounts that we manage to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty. while we regularly conduct assessments of such risk posed by our counterparties, the risk of non-performance by such parties is subject to sudden swings in the financial and credit markets. 12 table of contents our financial condition and liquidity would be adversely affected by losses on our seed capital and co-investments . the company has investments in managed investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including, but not limited to equities, fixed income products, commodities, derivatives, and similar financial instruments, private equity, and real estate. investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks, or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed capital and co-investments. a reduction in the value of these investments may adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. as of december 31, 2014 , the company had $731.5 million in seed capital and co-investments, including direct investments in consolidated investment products (cip) and consolidated sponsored investment products (csip). we operate in an industry that is highly regulated in many countries, and any enforcement action or adverse changes in the laws or regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict our business activities, conduct examinations, risk assessments, investigations and capital adequacy reviews, and impose remedial programs to address perceived deficiencies. subsidiaries operating in the european union ( eu ) also are subject to various eu directives, which are implemented by member state national legislation. as a result of regulatory oversight, we could face requirements which negatively impact the way in which we conduct business, impose additional capital requirements and/or involve enforcement actions which could lead to sanctions up to and including the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel, or the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities, or in private litigation against us, could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. a substantial portion of the products and services we offer are regulated by the securities and exchange commission (sec), financial industry regulatory authority (finra), the commodities future trading commission (cftc), the national futures association (nfa) and the texas department of banking in the united states and by the financial conduct authority (fca) and the prudential regulatory authority (pra) in the united kingdom. our operations elsewhere in the world are regulated by similar regulatory organizations. the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen a significant increase in regulation in recent years. various changes in laws and regulations have been enacted or otherwise developed in multiple jurisdictions globally in response to the crisis in the financial markets that began in 2007. various other proposals remain under consideration by legislators, regulators, and other government officials and other public policy commentators. certain enacted provisions and certain other proposals are potentially far reaching and, depending upon their implementation, could have a material impact on invesco's business. while many of these provisions appear to address perceived problems in the banking sector, certain of the provisions will or may be applied more broadly and affect other financial services companies, including investment managers. we may be adversely affected as a result of the new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. to the extent that existing regulations are interpreted or amended or future regulations are adopted in a manner that reduces the sale, or increases the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affects the investment performance of our products, our aggregate aum and our revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, regulatory changes have imposed and may continue to impose additional costs or capital requirements, which could negatively impact our profitability or return on equity. in the united states, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ) was signed into law in july 2010. while invesco does not believe that the dodd-frank act will fundamentally change the investment management industry or cause invesco to reconsider its basic strategy, certain provisions have required, and other provisions will or may require, us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also have increased regulatory burdens and related compliance costs, and will or may continue to do so. furthermore, certain provisions, including the so-called "volker rule," appear to be having unintended adverse consequences on the liquidity or structure of the financial markets. in addition, the scope and impact of many provisions of the dodd-frank act will be determined by implementing regulations, some of which require lengthy proposal and promulgation periods. moreover, the dodd-frank act mandated many regulatory studies, some of which pertain directly to the investment management industry, which could lead to additional legislation or regulation. the european union has promulgated or is considering various new or revised directives pertaining to financial services, including investment managers. such directives are progressing at various stages, and have been, are being, or will or would be 13 table of contents implemented by national legislation in member states. as with the dodd-frank act, invesco does not believe implementation of these directives will fundamentally change our industry or cause us to reconsider our fundamental strategy, but certain provisions have required, and other provisions will or may require, us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also have increased regulatory burdens and compliance costs, and will or may continue to do so. certain provisions may have unintended adverse consequences on the liquidity or structure of the financial markets. similar developments are being implemented or considered in other jurisdictions where we do business; such developments could have similar effects. developments under regulatory changes will or may include, without limitation: expanded regulation over investment management firms. new or increased capital requirements and related regulation. changes in the u.s. to the regulation of money market funds, including new requirements effective in 2016 for a floating net asset value (nav) for institutional money market funds and requirements for imposing liquidity fees and redemption limits or gates for all money market funds (except government funds) when fund liquidity is depleted. these regulatory reforms will necessitate structural and operational changes to all of invesco's u.s. money market fund products. additional change to the regulation of money market funds in the eu requiring capital buffers. limitations on holdings of certain commodities under proposed regulations of the cftc which could result in capacity constraints for our balanced risk products and other products that employ commodities as part of their investment strategy. changes to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products. in the u.s., the sec previously has proposed and may repropose significant changes to rule 12b-1, and may propose other regulatory changes impacting distribution of investment funds. invesco believes these proposals could increase operational and compliance costs. the u.k. financial conduct authority has implemented its retail distribution review ("rdr"), which reshaped the manner in which retail investment funds are sold in the u.k. rdr changed how retail clients pay for investment advice given in respect of all retail investment products, including mutual funds. rdr restructured the manner in which fund distributors are compensated for the services they provide. the eu has implemented the alternative investment fund manager directive ("aifmd"); implementing legislation in member states has, among other elements, imposed restrictions on the marketing and sale within the eu of private equity and other alternative investment funds sponsored by non-eu managers. various regulators promulgated or are considering other new disclosure or suitability requirements pertaining to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products, including enhanced standards and requirements pertaining to disclosures made to retail investors at the point of sale. the markets in financial instruments directive ii ( mifid ii ) in the eu seeks to promote a single market for wholesale and retail transactions in financial instruments. mifid ii addresses the conduct of business rules for intermediaries providing investment services and the effective, efficient and safe operation of financial markets. key elements of mifid ii are the extent to which retrocessions may be paid and the use of trading commissions to fund research. an increased focus on liquidity in fixed income funds. increased regulatory scrutiny on operations of private equity funds. guidelines regarding the structure and components of fund manager compensation, including under various eu directives. new requirements pertaining to the trading of securities and other financial instruments, such as swaps and other derivatives, including certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and european market infrastructure regulation; these include a significant amount of new reporting requirements, designated trading venues, mandated central clearing arrangements, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain financial institutions, other conduct requirements and potentially new taxes or similar fees. broadening of the reach of regulatory bodies into areas where they have not been previously (e.g. the required registration of hedge funds and other private funds with the sec). heightened regulatory examinations and inspections, including enforcement reviews, and a more aggressive posture regarding commencing enforcement proceedings resulting in fines, penalties and additional remedial activities to firms and to individuals. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, regulators in the united states and the united kingdom have taken and can be expected to continue to take a more aggressive posture on bringing enforcement proceedings. enhanced licensing and qualification requirements for key personnel. other additional rules and regulations and disclosure requirements. certain provisions impose additional disclosure burdens on public companies. certain proposals could impose requirements for more widespread disclosures of compensation to highly-paid individuals. depending upon the scope of any such requirements, invesco could be disadvantaged in retaining key employees vis- -vis private companies, including hedge fund sponsors. strengthening standards regarding various ethical matters, including enhanced focus of u.s. regulators and law enforcement agencies on compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. 14 table of contents regulations promulgated to address perceptions that the asset management industry, or certain of its entities or activities, pose systematic risks to the financial system. other changes impacting the identity or the organizational structure of regulators with supervisory authority over invesco. regulations promulgated to address risks of fraud, malfeasance or other adverse consequences stemming from cyber attacks. invesco cannot at this time predict the full impact of potential legal and regulatory changes or possible enforcement proceedings on its business. it is possible such changes could impose new compliance costs or capital requirements, including costs related to information technology systems, or impact invesco in other ways that could have a material adverse impact on invesco's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. similarly, regulatory enforcement actions which impose significant penalties or compliance obligations or which result in significant reputational harm could have similar material adverse effects on invesco. moreover, certain legal or regulatory changes could require us to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur other new constraints or costs, including the investment of significant management time and resources in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. to the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of our products and services or our investment strategies cause or contribute to reduced sales or increased redemptions of our products or impair the investment performance of our products, our aggregate aum and results of operations might be adversely affected. distribution of earnings of our subsidiaries may be subject to limitations, including net capital requirements. substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, intercompany loans or other payments by our subsidiaries to us. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries ' earnings and business considerations. for example, certain of our subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum levels of capital. such requirements may change from time-to-time as additional guidance is released based on a variety of factors, including balance sheet composition, assessment of risk exposures and governance, and review from regulators. these and other similar provisions of applicable law may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. all of our regulated eu subsidiaries are subject to consolidated capital requirements under eu directives, including those arising from the capital requirements directive iv (crd iv) and the united kingdom's internal capital adequacy assessment process (icaap), and capital is maintained within this sub-group to satisfy these regulations. these requirements mandate the retention of liquid resources, which we meet in part by holding cash and cash equivalents. this retained cash can be used for general business purposes in the european sub-group in the countries where it is located. due to the capital restrictions, the ability to transfer cash between certain jurisdictions may be limited. in addition, transfers of cash between international jurisdictions may have adverse tax consequences. at december 31, 2014 , the european sub-group had cash and cash equivalent balances of $937.6 million ( december 31, 2013 : $632.3 million ). as of december 31, 2014 , the company's minimum regulatory capital requirement was $416.0 million (december 31, 2013: $282.0 million). complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the european sub-group. as a result of corporate restructuring and regulatory requirements, certain of these eu subsidiaries may be required to limit their dividends to the parent company, invesco ltd. our financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute funds to us. civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions could adversely affect our aum and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business. invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings, including civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions. these actions can arise from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory reviews. further, as a global company with investment products registered in numerous countries and subject to the jurisdiction of one or more regulators in each country, at any given time, our business operations may be subject to review, investigation or disciplinary action. for example, in the united states, united kingdom, and other jurisdictions in which the company operates, governmental authorities regularly make inquiries, hold investigations and administer market conduct examinations with respect to the company's compliance with applicable laws and regulations. additional lawsuits or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of these inquiries may in the future be filed against the company and related entities and individuals in the united states, united kingdom, and other jurisdictions in which the company and its affiliates operate. see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 18 -- "commitments and contingencies, for additional information. judgments in civil litigation or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 15 table of contents we are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states. we have offices in numerous countries and many cross border and local proprietary funds that are domiciled outside the united states and may face difficulties in managing, operating and marketing our international operations. our international operations expose us to the political and economic consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions and subject us to expropriation risks, expatriation controls and potential adverse tax consequences. our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of key individuals or a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. retaining highly skilled technical and management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain retail shareholder accounts and other clients. the market for investment management professionals is competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as the investment management industry has experienced growth. the market for investment professionals is also increasingly characterized by the movement of investment professionals among different firms. our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals with a supportive professional working environment and compensation and benefits that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. however, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of significant investment professionals or other key personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. if our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income. our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and our good reputation is critical to our business. our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries, investigations or findings of wrongdoing, material errors in public reports, operational failures (including cyber breaches), employee dishonesty or other misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or eventually satisfactorily addressed. our business also requires us continuously to manage actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client or those of invesco. the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if we fail - or appear to fail - to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address and manage these risks, but this task can be complex and difficult, and if our procedures and controls fail, our reputation could be damaged. any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our aum, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. failure to establish adequate controls and risk management policies, or fraud, or the circumvention of controls and policies, could have an adverse effect on our reputation and financial position. we have established a comprehensive risk management process and continue to enhance various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risks to our business; however, we cannot be assured that such controls, procedures, policies and systems will successfully identify and manage internal and external risks to our business. we are subject to the risk that our employees, contractors or other third parties may deliberately seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud (including through cyber breaches) or act in ways that are inconsistent with our controls, policies and procedures. persistent or repeated attempts involving fraud, conflicts of interests or circumvention of policies and controls could have a materially adverse impact on our reputation and could lead to costly regulatory inquiries. 16 table of contents failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines could result in damage awards against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. many of the investment management agreements under which we manage assets or provide products or services specify investment guidelines or requirements that invesco is required to observe in the provision of its services. laws and regulations impose similar requirements for certain accounts. a failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts, any of which could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. we maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to prevent, detect and correct such errors. when an error is detected, we typically will make a payment into the applicable client account to correct it. significant errors could impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, increase commissions paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries, all of which could reduce our profitability. the investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and financial intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. we continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products. we face strong competition in every market in which we operate. our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. our competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. if these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various distribution channels around the world have also resulted in increased competition. in recent years there have been several instances of industry consolidation, both in the area of distributors and manufacturers of investment products. further consolidation may occur in these areas in the future. the increasing size and market influence of certain distributors of our products and of certain direct competitors may have a negative impact on our ability to compete at the same levels of profitability in the future, should we find ourselves unable to maintain relevance in the markets in which we compete. in the current low-interest rate environment, alongside the implementation of significant global quantitative easing policies and volatility in equity markets, investors are increasingly attracted to passive products, which are gaining share at the expense of active products. we may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. we regularly review, and from time-to-time have discussions with and engage in, potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to pursue such transactions, be successful in negotiating the required agreements, or successfully close transactions after signing such agreements. acquisitions also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if pending transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to closing or integration. following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. there can be no assurance that such sellers will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. 17 table of contents our ability to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors. our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. we have received credit ratings of a/stable and a2/stable from standard &amp; poor's ratings services and moody's, respectively, as of the date hereof. we believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to the fact that our revenues are exposed to equity market volatility and the potential impact from regulatory changes to the industry. additionally, the rating agencies could decide to downgrade the entire investment management industry, based on their perspective of future growth and solvency. material deterioration of these factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit ratings, thereby limiting our ability to generate additional financing. our credit facility borrowing rates are tied to our credit ratings. management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings. a reduction in our long-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, could limit our access to the capital markets, and may result in outflows thereby reducing aum and revenues. volatility in global finance markets may also affect our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so. if we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. as of december 31, 2014 , we had outstanding total debt of $1,589.3 million , excluding debt of cip, and total equity attributable to common shareholders of $8,308.4 million , excluding retained earnings appropriated for investors in cip. the amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient assets or liquidity to repay such amounts in full. our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios. this credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. the breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or due to a significant and prolonged market-driven decline in our operating results) would result in a default under the credit facility. in the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if any indebtedness under the credit facility were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full. changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our net revenues and hinder our growth. we sell substantially all of our retail investment products through a variety of third party financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, supermarkets, regional broker-dealers, insurance companies, banks and financial planners in north america, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and supermarket platforms in europe and asia. no single one of these intermediaries is material to our business. increasing competition for these distribution channels could nevertheless cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. following the financial crisis, there has been consolidation of banks and broker-dealers, particularly in the u.s., and a limited amount of migration of brokers and financial advisors away from major banks to independent firms focused largely on providing advice. if these changes continue, our distribution costs could increase as a percentage of our revenues generated. additionally, particularly outside of the u.s., certain of the third party intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. increasingly, investors, particularly in the institutional market, rely on external consultants and other unconflicted third parties for advice on the choice of investment manager. these consultants and third parties tend to exert a significant degree of influence over their clients' choices, and they may favor a competitor of invesco as better meeting their particular clients' needs. there is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. if a material portion of our distributors were to cease operations, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources and the consultant community would impair our ability to sell our products, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. 18 table of contents our business is vulnerable to deficiencies and failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to breaches and errors, resulting in loss of customers or claims against us or our subsidiaries. the ability to consistently and reliably obtain accurate securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and clients in other accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. certain types of securities may experience liquidity constraints that would require increased use of fair value pricing, which is dependent on certain subjective judgments that have the potential to be challenged. any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports, other breaches and errors, and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate customers and potentially give rise to claims against us. our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party service providers. certain of these processes involve a degree of manual input, and thus problems could occur from time-to-time due to human error. deficiencies and failures in these systems or service functions could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. we depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems or facilities, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could result in significant limits on our ability to conduct our operations and activities, costs and reputational damage. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we are also dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security infrastructure, policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. we use our technology to, among other things, manage and trade portfolio investments, support our other operations, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. any inaccuracies, delays, systems failures or security breaches in these and other processes could disrupt our business operations, subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses and/or subject us to reputational harm. our computer, communications, data processing, networks, backup, business continuity or other operating, information or technology systems and facilities, including those that we outsource to other providers, may fail to operate properly or become disabled, overloaded or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an external hacker attack by one or more cyber criminals or an authorized employee or vendor causing us to release confidential information inadvertently or through malfeasance, which could materially harm our operations and reputation. the third parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries and technology infrastructure and service providers, are also susceptible to the foregoing risks (including regarding the third parties with which they are similarly interconnected or on which they otherwise rely), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom we or they are interconnected or conduct business. breach of our technology systems could damage our reputation and could result in the unauthorized disclosure or modification or loss of sensitive or confidential information (including client data); unauthorized disclosure modification or loss of proprietary information relating to our business; breach and termination of client contracts; liability for stolen assets, information or identity; remediation costs to repair damage caused by the breach, including damage to systems and recovery of lost data; additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents; regulatory actions, and litigation costs resulting from the incident. such consequences could result in material financial loss and have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. 19 table of contents if we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we believe our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems should mitigate adverse impacts. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or technology personnel. further, as we strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. although we seek to assess regularly and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the united states and have functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. the largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our aum, is presently denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the united states whose functional currencies are not the u.s. dollar. as a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. consequently, significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the u.k. pound sterling, euro, or canadian dollar, among other currencies, could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results. the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we have goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to annual impairment reviews. we also have definite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to impairment testing if indicators of impairment are identified. goodwill and intangible assets totaled $6,579.4 million and $1,246.7 million , respectively, at december 31, 2014 ( december 31, 2013 : $6,867.3 million and $1,263.7 million , respectively). we may not realize the value of such assets. we perform impairment reviews of the book values of these assets on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. a variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related assets would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting policies - goodwill and - intangibles, for additional details of our impairment analysis process. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to shareholders. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a company incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda (companies act). the companies act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. under bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances described in the following paragraph. however, directors and officers may owe duties to a company's creditors in cases of impending insolvency. directors and officers of a bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. if a director or officer of a bermuda company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. 20 table of contents class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of bermuda. however, the bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow english case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in a company's name against the directors and officers to remedy a wrong done to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the company's corporate power or is illegal or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of shareholders than actually approved it. under our bye-laws, each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against us or any of our officers, directors or employees. the waiver applies to any action taken by a director, officer or employee, or the failure of such person to take any action, in the performance of his duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the director, officer or employee. this waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our directors, officers and employees unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. our bye-laws also provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to us other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the companies act. because we are incorporated in bermuda, it may be difficult for shareholders to serve process or enforce judgments against us or our directors and officers. we are organized under the laws of bermuda. in addition, certain of our officers and directors reside in countries outside the united states. a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these officers and directors are or may be located outside the united states. investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the united states on our directors and officers who reside outside the united states or recovering against us or these directors and officers on judgments of u.s. courts based on civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws, even though we have appointed an agent in the united states to receive service of process. further, it may not be possible, in bermuda or in countries other than the united states where we have assets, to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against us based on the civil liability provisions of u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against us or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or would hear actions against us or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised by our legal advisors in bermuda that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. some remedies available under the laws of the united states or the states therein, including some remedies available under the u.s. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in bermuda courts because they may be found to be contrary to bermuda public policy. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the united states based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in other countries other than the united states. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or to obtain majority representation on our board of directors without the consent of our board. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares under such circumstances. specifically, our bye-laws contain the following provisions that may impede or delay an unsolicited takeover of the company: we are prohibited from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination (as defined in our bye-laws) with any interested shareholder (as defined in our bye-laws) for three years following the date that the shareholder became an interested shareholder; our board of directors, without further shareholder action, is permitted by our bye-laws to issue preference shares, in one or more series, and determine by resolution any designations, preferences, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions, or special or relative rights of an additional series. the rights of preferred shareholders may supersede the rights of common shareholders; our board of directors is classified into three classes with the election years of the members of each class staggered such that the members of only one of the three classes are elected each year. (in may 2014, our shareholders have approved 21 table of contents a phased-in declassification of our board of directors, which will be complete by the 2017 annual general meeting of shareholders.); shareholders may only remove directors for cause (defined in our bye-laws to mean willful misconduct or gross negligence which is materially injurious to the company, fraud or embezzlement, or a conviction of, or a plea of guilty or no contest to, a felony); our board of directors is authorized to expand its size and fill vacancies; and shareholders cannot act by written consent unless the consent is unanimous. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows. under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. there is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation. we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. from time-to-time, proposals are introduced in the u.s. congress that, if ultimately enacted, could either limit treaty benefits on certain payments made by our u.s. subsidiaries to non-u.s. affiliates, treat the company as a u.s. corporation and thereby subject the earnings from non-u.s. subsidiaries of the company to u.s. taxation, or both. the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd) continues to release new proposals as part of its action plan for multilateral cooperation to address tax base erosion and profit shifting (beps) concerns. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes (and, in certain cases, interest, fines or penalties). we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the company is primarily exposed to market risk in the form of aum market price risk, securities market risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk. aum market price risk the company's investment management revenues are comprised of fees based on the value of aum. declines in the market prices of equity and fixed income securities, commodities and derivatives, or other similar financial instruments held in client portfolios could cause revenues to decline because of lower investment management fees by: causing the value of aum to decrease. causing the returns realized on aum to decrease (impacting performance fees). 74 table of contents causing clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments in markets that they perceive to offer greater opportunity and that the company does not serve. causing clients to rebalance assets away from investments that the company manages into investments that the company does not manage. causing clients to reallocate assets away from products that earn higher revenues into products that earn lower revenues. underperformance of client accounts relative to competing products could exacerbate these factors. assuming the revenue yield on aum for the year remains unchanged, a 10% decline in the average aum for the year would result in a corresponding decline in revenue. certain expenses, including distribution and compensation expenses, may not vary in proportion with the changes in the market value of aum. as such, the impact on operating margin or net income of a decline in the market values of aum may be greater or less than the percentage decline in the market value of aum. securities market risk the company has investments in managed investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes. investments are generally made to establish a track record for a new fund or investment vehicle or to hedge economically exposure to certain deferred compensation plans. the company's exposure to market risk from financial instruments measured at fair value arises from its investments. the following table summarizes the impact of a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values of these investments: december 31, 2014 $ in millions fair value fair value assuming 10% increase fair value assuming 10% decrease available-for-sale investments (a) 255.9 281.5 230.3 trading investments (b) 263.2 289.5 236.9 total assets measured at fair value exposed to market risk 519.1 571.0 467.2 direct investments in csip and cip (c) 220.5 242.6 198.5 total liabilities measured at fair value exposed to market risk (d) (1.4 ) (1.5 ) (1.3 ) a. any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale investments are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, until the investment is sold or otherwise disposed of, or if the investment is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in income. the company evaluates the carrying value of investments for impairment on a quarterly basis. in its impairment analysis, the company takes into consideration numerous criteria, including the duration and extent of any decline in fair value, and the intent and ability of the company to hold the security for a period of time sufficient for a recovery in value. if the decline in value is determined to be other-than-temporary, the carrying value of the security is generally written down to fair value through the consolidated statement of income. if such a 10% increase or decrease in fair values were to occur, it would not result in an other-than-temporary impairment charge that would be material to our pre-tax earnings. b. if such a 10% increase or decrease in fair values were to occur, the change attributable to $263.2 million of these trading investments would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings. at december 31, 2014 , $162.6 million of these trading investments are held to hedge economically certain deferred compensation plans in which the company participates. the company recognizes as compensation expense the appreciation or depreciation of the compensation liability over the award's vesting period in proportion to the vested amount of the award. the company immediately recognizes the appreciation or depreciation of these investments, which is included in other gains and losses. this creates a timing difference between the recognition of the compensation expense and the investment gain or loss impacting net income, which will reverse and will offset to zero over the life of the award at the end of the multi-year vesting period. c. these represent invesco's direct investments in investment products that are consolidated. upon consolidation, these direct investments are eliminated, and the assets and liabilities of the cip and csip are consolidated in the consolidated balance sheet, together with a noncontrolling interest balance representing the portion of the cip and csip owned by third parties. if a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values of invesco's direct investments in cip and csip were to occur, it would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our net income attributable to common shareholders. 75 table of contents d. liabilities measured at fair value include uit-related financial instruments sold, not yet purchased and a note payable. see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 2 , "fair value of assets and liabilities," for additional details. cash balances invested in money market funds of $474.9 million have been excluded from the table above. these are valued under the market approach at the net asset value of the underlying funds, which is maintained at $1. assets held for policyholders of $1,697.9 million have also been excluded from the table above. the entity holds assets that are managed for its clients on its balance sheet with an equal and offsetting liability to the policyholders, which is linked to the value of the investments. the investments and the policyholder payables held by this business are carried in the consolidated balance sheets as separate account assets and liabilities at fair value in accordance with asc topic 944, financial services - insurance. changes in fair value are recorded and offset to zero in the consolidated statements of income in other operating revenues. increases or decreases in the fair value of these investments will therefore have no impact to our pre-tax earnings. interest rate risk interest rate risk relates to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its external debt and cash and cash equivalent investments. on december 31, 2014 , the interest rates on 100.0% of the company's borrowings were fixed for a weighted average period of 13.6 years. borrowings under the credit facility will have floating interest rates. the interest rate profile of the financial assets of the company on december 31, 2014 , was: december 31, 2014 $ in millions carrying value fair value assuming a +1% interest rate change fair value assuming a -1% interest rate change available-for-sale investments: * collateralized loan obligations 3.4 3.4 3.4 foreign time deposits 29.6 29.8 29.6 total investments 33.0 33.2 33.0 ____________ * other debt securities, as of the year ended december 31, 2014 , of $6.3 million are not included in the table above as they are valued using a cost valuation technique. see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data - note 2 , fair value of assets and liabilities-available-for-sale-investments for more information on other debt securities. the interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the company on december 31 was: $ in millions december 31, 2014 december 31, 2013 long-term debt fixed rate 1,589.3 1,588.6 floating rate total 1,589.3 1,588.6 weighted average interest rate percentage 4.0 % 4.0 % weighted average period for which rate is fixed in years 13.6 14.6 see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 8 , debt for additional disclosures relating to the u.s. dollar floating and fixed rate obligations. the company's only fixed interest financial assets at december 31, 2014 , are foreign time deposit investments of $29.6 million ( 2013 : $28.8 million ). the weighted average interest rate on these investments is 0.48% ( 2013 : 0.68% ) and the weighted average time for which the rate is fixed is 0.3 years ( 2013 : 0.2 years). 76 table of contents foreign exchange rate risk the company has transactional currency exposures that occur when any of the company's subsidiaries receive or pay cash in a currency different from its functional currency. such exposure arises from sales or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. these exposures are not actively managed. the company also has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets and results of operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risk when translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation into invesco ltd. a strengthening u.s. dollar has a negative impact on the company's foreign currency denominated earnings when presented in u.s. dollars. the company's most significant foreign exchange rate risk exposure relates to the translation of pound sterling-denominated transactions into the u.s. dollar reporting currency. item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 17 , "geographic information," contains disclosure of revenue from external customers by geography. the disclosure of revenues from external customers earned in the u.k. is an indicator of the company's exposure to the pound sterling; however, expenses incurred in the u.k. provide a natural offset to the company's exposure to the pound sterling. a 10% decline in the pound sterling from the current rate will result in an approximate 5-6 cent decline in annual earnings per share, and an erosion of 10-20 basis points of operating margin. given this exposure, in january 2015 the company entered into a series of out-of-the money put option contracts to hedge economically approximately 75% of the foreign currency risk on the translation of its pound sterling-denominated earnings into u.s. dollars for 2015. the economic hedge is predominantly triggered upon the impact of a decline in the pound sterling/u.s. dollar foreign exchange rate below $1.493, which could arise as a result of european economic uncertainty. the company is exposed to foreign exchange revaluation into the consolidated statements of income on monetary assets and liabilities that are held by subsidiaries in different functional currencies than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. net foreign exchange revaluation gains were $1.8 million in 2014 ( 2013 : $0.8 million of losses), and are included in general and administrative expenses and other gains and losses, net on the consolidated statements of income. we continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange revaluation. 77 table of contents supplementary quarterly financial data the following is selected unaudited consolidated data for invesco ltd. for the quarters indicated: 2014 2013 $ in millions, except per share data q4 q3 q2 q1 q4 q3 q2 q1 operating revenues: investment management fees 1,009.5 1,047.3 1,031.9 965.4 955.1 914.4 885.5 844.6 service and distribution fees 217.7 222.1 214.7 238.6 230.1 220.7 215.7 206.3 performance fees 16.8 8.2 5.0 31.1 8.7 5.1 6.0 36.1 other 32.7 33.4 38.3 34.4 31.2 31.6 28.3 25.2 total operating revenues 1,276.7 1,311.0 1,289.9 1,269.5 1,225.1 1,171.8 1,135.5 1,112.2 operating expenses: employee compensation 345.7 343.8 342.9 362.1 333.4 330.3 324.1 341.5 third-party distribution, service and advisory 394.5 420.2 410.6 405.4 396.2 380.9 366.0 346.1 marketing 31.9 26.6 30.2 23.4 30.0 22.6 23.8 22.2 property, office and technology 72.0 76.4 75.3 112.7 85.8 71.9 68.6 66.5 general and administrative 84.4 114.4 76.1 121.6 86.4 80.1 77.3 67.5 transaction and integration 1.8 1.4 total operating expenses 928.5 981.4 935.1 1,025.2 931.8 885.8 861.6 845.2 operating income 348.2 329.6 354.8 244.3 293.3 286.0 273.9 267.0 other income/(expense): equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 6.4 10.9 5.5 10.0 10.2 10.3 6.9 8.1 interest and dividend income 4.5 2.6 3.1 2.9 3.3 2.4 2.1 2.2 interest expense (18.1 ) (18.1 ) (18.2 ) (18.7 ) (15.2 ) (9.7 ) (10.0 ) (9.7 ) other gains and losses, net 6.6 (1.3 ) 16.2 6.6 (18.9 ) 3.4 0.4 17.7 other income/(expense) of csip, net 1.0 7.4 7.7 8.2 3.5 (0.6 ) cip: interest and dividend income of cip 56.8 53.4 48.0 48.3 42.5 46.5 50.7 50.3 interest expense of cip (35.8 ) (37.5 ) (30.3 ) (30.3 ) (26.5 ) (33.5 ) (30.6 ) (32.7 ) other gains/(losses) of cip, net (43.0 ) 0.1 36.8 26.5 46.4 38.2 (1.6 ) (21.1 ) income from continuing operations before income taxes 326.6 347.1 423.6 297.8 338.6 343.0 291.8 281.8 income tax provision (99.7 ) (94.9 ) (107.0 ) (89.0 ) (74.2 ) (92.9 ) (83.5 ) (86.3 ) income from continuing operations, net of taxes 226.9 252.2 316.6 208.8 264.4 250.1 208.3 195.5 income from discontinued operations, net of taxes (1.0 ) (0.6 ) 0.2 (2.0 ) 66.4 (1.4 ) (4.6 ) 4.1 net income 225.9 251.6 316.8 206.8 330.8 248.7 203.7 199.6 (gains)/losses attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities, net 43.9 4.4 (42.3 ) (19.0 ) (43.4 ) (20.6 ) (1.1 ) 22.6 net income attributable to common shareholders 269.8 256.0 274.5 187.8 287.4 228.1 202.6 222.2 earnings per share*: basic earnings per share from continuing operations $0.63 $0.59 $0.63 $0.43 $0.50 $0.51 $0.46 $0.49 earnings per share from discontinued operations $ $ $ $ $0.15 $ ($0.01 ) $0.01 basic earnings per share $0.62 $0.59 $0.63 $0.43 $0.65 $0.51 $0.45 $0.50 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $0.62 $0.59 $0.63 $0.43 $0.50 $0.51 $0.46 $0.49 earnings per share from discontinued operations $ $ $ $ $0.15 $ ($0.01 ) $0.01 diluted earnings per share $0.62 $0.59 $0.63 $0.43 $0.64 $0.51 $0.45 $0.49 average shares outstanding*: - basic 433.2 434.3 435.7 436.8 445.0 447.9 449.1 447.8 - diluted 433.6 434.8 436.4 437.4 445.9 448.8 450.1 449.0 dividends declared per share: $0.2500 $0.2500 $0.2500 $0.2250 $0.2250 $0.2250 $0.2250 $0.1725 ____________ * the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may differ from the annual earnings per share amounts due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in interim periods. 78 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively affect invesco's revenues, operations, financial condition and liquidity. in recent years, capital and credit markets have experienced substantial volatility. in this regard: in the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure or disruptions in the global financial system or failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in aum and severe liquidity or valuation problems in managed investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and retention and ability to attract key employees. additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. in addition to the impact of the market volatility on client portfolios, illiquidity and/or volatility of the global fixed income and/or equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows or to timely meet client redemption requests. our money market funds have always maintained a net asset value (nav) of $1.00 per share; however, we do not guarantee such level. market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could affect their navs. if the nav of one of our money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in aum, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. in the u.s., regulations requiring a variable ( floating ) nav for institutional money market funds will become effective in 2016. even if central bank, legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts continue to stabilize the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. we may not adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in global financial markets. if we are unable to effect appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace, our profitability, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected by any reduction in aum as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. we derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of aum. aum may decline for various reasons. for any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin likely would decline by a greater proportion because a majority of expenses remain fixed. factors that could decrease aum (and therefore revenues) include the following: declines in the market value of the assets in the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which our aum are concentrated. approximately 48% of our total aum were invested in equity securities and approximately 52% were invested in fixed income and other investments at december 31, 2015 . our aum as of january 31, 2016 were $740.9 billion . we cannot predict whether volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our aum are concentrated. any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin. redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in funds and accounts in general or in the market segments on which invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance of the funds and accounts managed by invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales, increased redemptions of fund shares and the loss of private institutional accounts, with corresponding decreases in our revenues. failure of our funds and accounts to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on 11 table of contents actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and other alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, stable return accounts, and certain etfs. our revenues may decline if clients continue to shift their investments to lower fee accounts. in addition, the loss of key personnel or significant investment management professionals could reduce the attractiveness of our products to current and potential clients and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. investments in international markets . investment products that we manage may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization and asset confiscation. international trading markets, particularly emerging markets and frontier markets, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the developed world. our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time. substantially all of our revenues are derived from investment management agreements. investment management agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days' notice. agreements with u.s. mutual funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the event of an assignment (as defined in the investment company act of 1940, as amended), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund's board of trustees or directors, as required by law. in addition, the boards of trustees or directors of certain other fund accounts generally may terminate these investment management agreements upon written notice for any reason. mutual fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of aum, generally on short notice. any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or aum, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility. certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. these redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. in addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of fixed income investments and fixed income derivatives held in various investment portfolios and other products. thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from money market portfolios and from other fixed income products. if securities within a money market portfolio default or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its nav. although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining nav. some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. additionally, we have investments in fixed income assets, including collateralized loan obligations and seed money in fixed income funds, the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates. performance fees may increase revenue and earnings volatility. a portion of the company's revenues is derived from performance fees on investment advisory assignments. performance fees represented $85.9 million , or 1.7% , of total operating revenues for the year ended december 31, 2015 . in most cases, performance fees are based on relative or absolute investment returns, although in some cases they are based on achieving specific service standards. generally, the company is entitled to performance fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. if these targets are not exceeded, performance fees for that period will not be earned and, if targets are based on cumulative returns, the company may not earn performance fees in future periods. performance fees will vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns and the timing of revenue recognition, causing earnings to be more volatile. 12 table of contents the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we, and the products and accounts that we manage, have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, clearing organizations, hedge funds, and other institutional clients. many of these transactions expose us or the funds and accounts that we manage to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty. while we regularly conduct assessments of such risk posed by our counterparties, the risk of non-performance by such parties is subject to sudden swings in the financial and credit markets. our financial condition and liquidity would be adversely affected by losses on our seed capital and co-investments . the company has investments in managed investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including, but not limited to equities, fixed income products, commodities, derivatives, and similar financial instruments, private equity, and real estate. investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks, or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed capital and co-investments. a reduction in the value of these investments may adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. as of december 31, 2015 , the company had $783.9 million in seed capital and co-investments, including direct investments in consolidated investment products (cip) and consolidated sponsored investment products (csip). we operate in an industry that is highly regulated in many countries, and any enforcement action or adverse changes in the laws or regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict our business activities, conduct examinations, risk assessments, investigations and capital adequacy reviews, and impose remedial programs to address perceived deficiencies. as a result of regulatory oversight, we could face requirements which negatively impact the way in which we conduct business, increase compliance costs, impose additional capital requirements and/or involve enforcement actions which could lead to sanctions up to and including the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel, or the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities, or in private litigation against us, could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. a substantial portion of the products and services we offer are regulated by the securities and exchange commission (sec), financial industry regulatory authority (finra), the commodities future trading commission (cftc), the national futures association (nfa) and the texas department of banking in the united states and by the financial conduct authority (fca) and the prudential regulatory authority (pra) in the united kingdom. subsidiaries operating in the european union ( eu ) are subject to various eu directives, which are implemented by member state national legislation. our operations elsewhere in the world are regulated by similar regulatory organizations. the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen a significant increase in regulation in recent years. various changes in laws and regulations have been enacted or otherwise developed in multiple jurisdictions globally in response to the crisis in the financial markets that began in 2007. various other proposals remain under consideration by legislators, regulators, and other government officials and other public policy commentators. certain enacted provisions and certain other proposals are potentially far reaching and, depending upon their implementation, could have a material impact on invesco's business. while certain of these provisions appear to address perceived problems in the banking sector, some will or may be applied more broadly and affect other financial services companies, including investment managers. we may be adversely affected as a result of the new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. to the extent that existing regulations are interpreted or amended or future regulations are adopted in a manner that reduces the sale, or increases the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affects the investment performance of our products or impacts our product mix, our aggregate aum and our revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, regulatory changes have imposed and may continue to impose additional costs or capital requirements, which could negatively impact our profitability or return on equity. in the united states, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ) was signed into law in july 2010. while invesco does not believe that the dodd-frank act will fundamentally change the investment management 13 table of contents industry or cause invesco to reconsider its basic strategy, certain provisions have required, and other provisions will or may require, us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also have increased regulatory burdens and related compliance costs, and will or may continue to do so. moreover, the dodd-frank act mandated many regulatory studies, some of which pertain directly to the investment management industry, which could lead to additional legislation or regulation. in december 2014, sec chair mary jo white announced a comprehensive agenda for regulatory change governing the u.s. asset management industry and directed sec staff to develop a five-part series of new regulations addressing the topics of enhanced portfolio reporting, liquidity risk management, leverage and use of derivatives, adviser wind up and stress testing for funds and advisers. during 2015, the sec proposed new rules for the first three of these initiatives with additional proposals on the remaining agenda items expected in 2016. when finalized during 2016 or later, these new industry rules can be expected to add additional reporting and compliance costs and may affect the development of new products and the ability to continue to offer certain strategies through a registered investment company format. the european union has promulgated or is considering various new or revised directives pertaining to financial services, including investment managers. such directives are progressing at various stages, and have been, are being, or will or would be implemented by national legislation in member states. as with the dodd-frank act, invesco does not believe implementation of these directives will fundamentally change our industry or cause us to reconsider our fundamental strategy, but certain provisions have required, and other provisions will or may require, us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also have increased regulatory burdens and compliance costs, and will or may continue to do so. certain provisions may have unintended adverse consequences on the liquidity or structure of the financial markets. similar developments are being implemented or considered in other jurisdictions where we do business; such developments could have similar effects. developments under regulatory changes will or may include, without limitation: expanded regulation over investment management firms. new or increased capital requirements and related regulation. changes in the u.s. to the regulation of money market funds, including new requirements effective in 2016 for a floating net asset value (nav) for certain institutional money market funds and requirements for imposing liquidity fees and redemption limits or gates for all money market funds (except government funds) when fund liquidity is depleted. these regulatory reforms will necessitate structural and operational changes to invesco's u.s. money market fund products. additional change to the regulation of money market funds in the eu requiring capital buffers. limitations on holdings of certain commodities under proposed regulations of the cftc which could result in capacity constraints for our balanced risk products and other products that employ commodities as part of their investment strategy. the u.s. department of labor ( dol ) has reintroduced regulations that, if adopted, would treat as fiduciaries any person who provides investment advice or recommendations to employee benefit plans, plan fiduciaries, plan participants, plan beneficiaries, individual retirement accounts (iras) or ira owners. the proposal has wide-ranging consequences for invesco and our u.s. distribution partners and product line. under the new rules, firms and individuals who recommend financial products to retirement investors would be required to act in the best interest of the investor and, to receive variable compensation, would be required to enter into a contract with clients and produce complex disclosure documents intended to highlight financial conflicts of interest that may arise from the compensation the financial adviser receives from firms like invesco. invesco submitted a comment letter on these proposals on july 21, 2015, with a focus on the unintended consequences of the proposal and ways in which the dol can improve upon the proposal by expanding carve outs for investment education and sales activity and reducing the burdensome contract and disclosure requirements. we expect the final regulations to be promulgated in the first half of 2016. other changes to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products. in the u.s., the sec previously has proposed and may repropose significant changes to rule 12b-1, and may propose other regulatory changes impacting distribution of investment funds. invesco believes these proposals could increase operational and compliance costs. the eu has implemented the alternative investment fund manager directive ("aifmd"); implementing legislation in member states has, among other elements, imposed restrictions on the marketing and sale within the eu of private equity and other alternative investment funds sponsored by non-eu managers. various regulators promulgated or are considering other new disclosure or suitability requirements pertaining to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products, including enhanced standards and requirements pertaining to disclosures made to retail investors at the point of sale. the markets in financial instruments directive ii ( mifid ii ) in the eu seeks to promote a single market for wholesale and retail transactions in financial instruments. mifid ii addresses the conduct of business rules for intermediaries providing investment services and the effective, efficient and safe operation of financial markets. key elements of mifid ii are the extent to which retrocessions may be paid and the use of trading commissions to fund research. 14 table of contents an increased focus on liquidity in fixed income funds. increased regulatory scrutiny on operations of private equity funds. guidelines regarding the structure and components of fund manager compensation, including under various eu directives. new requirements pertaining to the trading of securities and other financial instruments, such as swaps and other derivatives, including certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and european market infrastructure regulation; these include a significant amount of new reporting requirements, designated trading venues, mandated central clearing arrangements, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain financial institutions, other conduct requirements and potentially new taxes or similar fees. broadening of the reach of regulatory bodies into areas where they have not been previously (e.g. the required registration of hedge funds and other private funds with the sec). heightened regulatory examinations and inspections, including enforcement reviews, and a more aggressive posture regarding commencing enforcement proceedings resulting in fines, penalties and additional remedial activities to firms and to individuals. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, regulators in the united states and the united kingdom have taken and can be expected to continue to take a more aggressive posture on bringing enforcement proceedings. enhanced licensing and qualification requirements for key personnel. other additional rules and regulations and disclosure requirements. certain provisions impose additional disclosure burdens on public companies. certain proposals could impose requirements for more widespread disclosures of compensation to highly-paid individuals. depending upon the scope of any such requirements, invesco could be disadvantaged in retaining key employees vis- -vis private companies, including hedge fund sponsors. strengthening standards regarding various ethical matters, including enhanced focus of u.s. regulators and law enforcement agencies on compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and anti-money-laundering laws and regulations. regulations promulgated to address perceptions that the asset management industry, or certain of its entities or activities, pose systematic risks to the financial system. other changes impacting the identity or the organizational structure of regulators with supervisory authority over invesco. regulations promulgated to address risks of fraud, malfeasance or other adverse consequences stemming from cyber attacks. invesco cannot at this time predict the full impact of potential legal and regulatory changes or possible enforcement proceedings on its business. such changes have imposed, and may continue to impose, new compliance costs and/or capital requirements, including costs related to information technology systems, or impact invesco in other ways that could have a material adverse impact on invesco's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. similarly, regulatory enforcement actions which impose significant penalties or compliance obligations or which result in significant reputational harm could have similar material adverse effects on invesco. moreover, certain legal or regulatory changes could require us to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur other new constraints or costs, including the investment of significant management time and resources in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. in recent years, certain regulatory developments have also added pressures regarding fee levels. to the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of our products and services or our investment strategies cause or contribute to reduced sales or increased redemptions of our products, impair the investment performance of our products or impact our product mix, our aggregate aum and results of operations might be adversely affected. distribution of earnings of our subsidiaries may be subject to limitations, including net capital requirements. substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, intercompany loans or other payments by our subsidiaries to us. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries ' earnings and business considerations. for example, certain of our subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum levels of capital. such requirements may change from time-to-time as additional guidance is released based on a variety of factors, including balance sheet composition, assessment of risk exposures and governance, and review from regulators. these and other similar provisions of applicable law may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. all of our regulated eu subsidiaries are subject to consolidated capital requirements under eu directives, including those arising from the capital requirements directive iv (crd iv) and the internal capital adequacy assessment process (icaap), and capital is maintained within this sub-group to satisfy these regulations. we meet these requirements in part by holding cash and cash equivalents. this retained cash can be used for general business purposes in the european sub-group in the countries where it is located. due to the capital restrictions, the ability to transfer cash 15 table of contents between certain jurisdictions may be limited. in addition, transfers of cash between international jurisdictions may have adverse tax consequences. as of december 31, 2015, the company's minimum regulatory capital requirement was $534.7 million (december 31, 2014: $416.0 million). complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the european sub-group. as a result of corporate restructuring and regulatory requirements, certain of these eu subsidiaries may be required to limit their dividends to the ultimate parent company, invesco ltd. our financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute funds to us. civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions could adversely affect our aum and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business. invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings, including civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions. these actions can arise from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory reviews. further, as a global company with investment products registered in numerous countries and subject to the jurisdiction of one or more regulators in each country, at any given time, our business operations may be subject to review, investigation or disciplinary action. for example, in the united states, united kingdom, and other jurisdictions in which the company operates, governmental authorities regularly make inquiries, hold investigations and administer market conduct examinations with respect to the company's compliance with applicable laws and regulations. lawsuits or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of these inquiries may in the future be filed against the company and related entities and individuals in the united states, united kingdom, and other jurisdictions in which the company and its affiliates operate. see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 18 -- "commitments and contingencies, for additional information. judgments in civil litigation or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. we are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states. we have offices in numerous countries and many cross border and local proprietary funds that are domiciled outside the united states and may face difficulties in managing, operating and marketing our international operations. our international operations expose us to the political and economic consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions and subject us to expropriation risks, expatriation controls and potential adverse tax consequences. our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of key individuals or a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. retaining highly skilled technical and management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain retail shareholder accounts and other clients. the market for investment management professionals is competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as the investment management industry has experienced growth. the market for investment professionals is also increasingly characterized by the movement of investment professionals among different firms. our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals with a supportive professional working environment and compensation and benefits (including equity and other forms of deferred compensation) that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. however, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of significant investment professionals or other key personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. if our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income. our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and our good reputation is critical to our business. our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries, investigations or findings of wrongdoing, material errors in public reports, intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications, operational failures (including cyber breaches), employee dishonesty or other misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or eventually satisfactorily addressed. our business also requires us continuously to manage actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client or those of invesco. the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if we fail - or appear to fail - 16 table of contents to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address and manage these risks, but this task can be complex and difficult, and if our procedures and controls fail, our reputation could be damaged. any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our aum, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. failure to establish adequate controls and risk management policies, the circumvention of controls and policies, or fraud could have an adverse effect on our reputation and financial position. we have established a comprehensive risk management process and continue to enhance various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risks to our business; however, we cannot be assured that such controls, procedures, policies and systems will successfully identify and manage internal and external risks to our business. we are subject to the risk that our employees, contractors or other third parties may deliberately seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud (including through cyber breaches) or act in ways that are inconsistent with our controls, policies and procedures. persistent or repeated attempts involving conflicts of interests, circumvention of policies and controls or fraud could have a materially adverse impact on our reputation and could lead to costly regulatory inquiries. failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines could result in damage awards against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. many of the investment management agreements under which we manage assets or provide products or services specify investment guidelines or requirements that invesco is required to observe in the provision of its services. laws and regulations impose similar requirements for certain accounts. a failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts, any of which could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. we maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to prevent, detect and correct such errors. when an error is detected, a payment will typically made into the applicable client account to correct it. significant errors for which we are responsible could impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, increase commissions paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries or could limit or reduct sales of our products, all of which could reduce our profitability. the investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and financial intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. we continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products. we face strong competition in every market in which we operate. our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. our competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. if these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various distribution channels around the world have also resulted in increased competition. in recent years there have been several instances of industry consolidation, both in the area of distributors and manufacturers of investment products. further consolidation may occur in these areas in the future. the increasing size and market influence of certain distributors of our products and of certain direct competitors may have a negative impact on our ability to compete at the same levels of profitability in the future, should we find ourselves unable to maintain relevance in the markets in which we compete. in the current low-interest rate environment, alongside the implementation of significant global quantitative easing policies and volatility in equity markets, investors are increasingly attracted to lower fee passive products, which have gained and may continue to gain share at the expense of active products. 17 table of contents we may be unable to develop new products and services and the development of new products and services may expose us to additional costs or operational risk. our financial performance depends, in part, on the company's ability to develop, market and manage new investment products and services. the development and introduction of new products and services requires continued innovative efforts on our part and may require significant time and resources as well as ongoing support and investment. substantial risk and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including the implementation of new and appropriate operational controls and procedures, shifting client and market preferences, the introduction of competing products or services and compliance with regulatory requirements. a failure to continue to innovate to introduce new products and services or to manage successfully the risks associated with such products and services may impact our market share relevance and may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. we may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. we regularly review, and from time-to-time have discussions with and engage in, potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to pursue such transactions, be successful in negotiating the required agreements, or successfully close transactions after signing such agreements. acquisitions also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if pending transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to closing or integration. following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. there can be no assurance that such sellers will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. our ability to maintain our credit ratings and to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors. our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. we have received credit ratings of a/stable from standard &amp; poor's ratings services, a2/stable from moody's and a-/positive from fitch ratings, as of the date hereof. we believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to the fact that our revenues are exposed to equity market volatility and the potential impact from regulatory changes to the industry. additionally, the rating agencies could decide to downgrade the entire investment management industry, based on their perspective of future growth and solvency. material deterioration of these factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit ratings, thereby limiting our ability to generate additional financing. our credit facility borrowing rates are tied to our credit ratings. management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings. a reduction in our long-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, could limit our access to the capital markets, and may result in outflows thereby reducing aum and revenues. volatility in global finance markets may also affect our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so. if we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. as of december 31, 2015 , we had outstanding total debt of $2,072.8 million , excluding debt of cip, and total equity attributable to invesco ltd. of $7,885.3 million . the amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. 18 table of contents our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient assets or liquidity to repay such amounts in full. our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios. this credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. the breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or due to a significant and prolonged market-driven decline in our operating results) would result in a default under the credit facility. in the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if any indebtedness under the credit facility were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full. changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our net revenues and hinder our growth. we sell substantially all of our retail investment products through a variety of third party financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, fund supermarkets, regional broker-dealers, insurance companies, banks and financial planners in north america, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and supermarket platforms in europe and asia. no single one of these intermediaries is material to our business. increasing competition for these distribution channels could nevertheless cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. following the financial crisis, there has been consolidation of banks and broker-dealers, particularly in the u.s., and a limited amount of migration of brokers and financial advisors away from major banks to independent firms focused largely on providing advice. if these changes continue, our distribution costs could increase as a percentage of our revenues generated. additionally, particularly outside of the u.s., certain of the third party intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. increasingly, investors, particularly in the institutional market, rely on external consultants and other third parties for advice on the choice of investment manager. these consultants and third parties tend to exert a significant degree of influence over their clients' choices, and they may favor a competitor of invesco as better meeting their particular clients' needs. there is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. if a material portion of our distributors were to cease operations, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources and the consultant community would impair our ability to sell our products, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. our business is vulnerable to deficiencies and failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to breaches and errors or reputational harm, resulting in loss of customers or claims against us or our subsidiaries. in addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, marketing, shareholder servicing, and trust, custody and other fiduciary services. in order to be competitive and comply with our agreements, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations, and required distributions to fund shareholders. the ability to consistently and reliably obtain accurate securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and clients in accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. certain types of securities may experience liquidity constraints that would require increased use of fair value pricing, which is dependent on certain subjective judgments that have the potential to be challenged. any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports, other breaches and errors, and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate customers and potentially give rise to claims against us. our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party service providers. certain of these processes involve a degree of manual input, and thus problems could occur from time-to-time due to human error. our failure to properly perform and monitor our operations or our otherwise suffering deficiencies and failures in these systems or service functions could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. the failure of one of our third party service providers or other key vendors to fulfill its obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or business, which may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. we depend on third party service providers and other key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody, risk analytics, market data, market indices and transfer agent roles, and other distribution and operational needs. if our third party 19 table of contents service providers or other key vendors fail to fulfill their obligations to us, it could lead to operational and regulatory problems, including with respect to certain of our products, which could result in losses, enforcement actions, or reputational harm and may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. we depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems or facilities, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could result in significant limits on our ability to conduct our operations and activities, costs and reputational damage. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we are also dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security infrastructure, policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. we use our technology to, among other things, manage and trade portfolio investments, support our other operations, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. any inaccuracies, delays, systems failures or security breaches in these and other processes could disrupt our business operations, subject us to client dissatisfaction and losses and/or subject us to reputational harm. our computer, communications, data processing, networks, backup, business continuity or other operating, information or technology systems and facilities, including those that we outsource to other providers, may fail to operate properly or become disabled, overloaded or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an external hacker attack by one or more cyber criminals or an authorized employee or vendor causing us to release confidential information inadvertently or through malfeasance, or lose temporarily or permanently data or applications or systems, which could materially harm our operations and reputation. the third parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries and technology infrastructure and service providers, are also susceptible to the foregoing risks (including regarding the third parties with which they are similarly interconnected or on which they otherwise rely), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom we or they are interconnected or conduct business. breach of our technology systems could damage our reputation and could result in the unauthorized disclosure or modification or loss of sensitive or confidential information (including client data); unauthorized disclosure modification or loss of proprietary information relating to our business; inability to process client or company transactions and processes; breach and termination of client contracts; liability for stolen assets, information or identity; remediation costs to repair damage caused by the breach, including damage to systems and recovery of lost data; additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents; regulatory actions, and litigation costs resulting from the incident. such consequences could result in material financial loss and have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. if we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we believe our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems should mitigate adverse impacts. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational problems with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or technology personnel. further, as we strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. although we seek to assess regularly and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. 20 table of contents since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the united states and have functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. the largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our aum, is presently denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the united states whose functional currencies are not the u.s. dollar. as a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. consequently, significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the u.k. pound sterling, euro, or canadian dollar, among other currencies, could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results. the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we have goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to annual impairment reviews. we also have definite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to impairment testing if indicators of impairment are identified. goodwill and intangible assets totaled $6,175.7 million and $1,354.0 million , respectively, at december 31, 2015 ( december 31, 2014 : $6,579.4 million and $1,246.7 million , respectively). we may not realize the value of such assets. we perform impairment reviews of the book values of these assets on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. a variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related assets would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting policies - goodwill and - intangibles, for additional details of our impairment analysis process. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows. under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. there is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation. we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. from time-to-time, proposals are introduced in the u.s. congress that, if ultimately enacted, could either limit treaty benefits on certain payments made by our u.s. subsidiaries to non-u.s. affiliates, treat the company as a u.s. corporation and thereby subject the earnings from non-u.s. subsidiaries of the company to u.s. taxation, or both. more recently, there have been numerous proposals for fundamental u.s. corporate tax reform. on october 5, 2015, the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd) released its final reports related to its action plan for multilateral cooperation to address tax base erosion and profit shifting (beps) concerns. the second phase of the beps project covers clarifications, implementation, and monitoring. countries have already begun to implement some of the action items and will continue to adopt more of them over the next several years. as with any global implementation process there are concerns about potential lack of consistency in the local application of these items. some of the recommendations are complex while others contain optional routes, thereby increasing the likelihood of only partial or limited implementation. countries may also decide to implement their own approaches unilaterally, independent of the beps recommendations. this could lead to increased uncertainty with tax positions as well as increase the potential for double taxation. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our future results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 21 table of contents examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes (and, in certain cases, interest, fines or penalties). we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to shareholders. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a company incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda (companies act). the companies act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. under bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances described in the following paragraph. however, directors and officers may owe duties to a company's creditors in cases of impending insolvency. directors and officers of a bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. if a director or officer of a bermuda company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of bermuda. however, the bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow english case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in a company's name against the directors and officers to remedy a wrong done to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the company's corporate power or is illegal or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of shareholders than actually approved it. under our bye-laws, each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against the company or any of our officers, directors or employees. the waiver applies to any action taken by a director, officer or employee, or the failure of such person to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the director, officer or employee. this waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our directors, officers and employees unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. our bye-laws also provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his or her own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the companies act. because we are incorporated in bermuda, it may be difficult for shareholders to serve process or enforce judgments against us or our directors and officers. the company is organized under the laws of bermuda. in addition, certain of our officers and directors reside in countries outside the united states. a substantial portion of the company's assets and the assets of these officers and directors are or may be located outside the united states. investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the united states on our directors and officers who reside outside the united states or recovering against the company or these directors and officers on judgments of u.s. courts based on civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws, even though the company has appointed an agent in the united states to receive service of process. 22 table of contents further, it may not be possible, in bermuda or in countries other than the united states where the company has assets, to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against the company based on the civil liability provisions of u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against the company or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or would hear actions against the company or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised by our legal advisors in bermuda that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. some remedies available under the laws of the united states or the states therein, including some remedies available under the u.s. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in bermuda courts because they may be found to be contrary to bermuda public policy. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the united states based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in other countries other than the united states. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or to obtain majority representation on our board of directors without the consent of our board. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares under such circumstances. specifically, our bye-laws contain the following provisions that may impede or delay an unsolicited takeover of the company: we are prohibited from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination (as defined in our bye-laws) with any interested shareholder (as defined in our bye-laws) for three years following the date that the shareholder became an interested shareholder; our board of directors, without further shareholder action, is permitted by our bye-laws to issue preference shares, in one or more series, and determine by resolution any designations, preferences, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions, or special or relative rights of an additional series. the rights of preferred shareholders may supersede the rights of common shareholders; our board of directors is classified into three classes with the election years of the members of each class staggered such that the members of only one of the three classes are elected each year. (in may 2014, our shareholders have approved a phased-in declassification of our board of directors, which will be complete by the 2017 annual general meeting of shareholders.); shareholders may only remove directors for cause (defined in our bye-laws to mean willful misconduct or gross negligence which is materially injurious to the company, fraud or embezzlement, or a conviction of, or a plea of guilty or no contest to, a felony); our board of directors is authorized to expand its size and fill vacancies; and shareholders cannot act by written consent unless the consent is unanimous. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the company is primarily exposed to market risk in the form of aum market price risk, securities market risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk. aum market price risk the company's investment management revenues are comprised of fees based on the value of aum. declines in the market prices of equity and fixed income securities, commodities and derivatives, or other similar financial instruments held in client portfolios could cause revenues to decline because of lower investment management fees by: causing the value of aum to decrease. causing the returns realized on aum to decrease (impacting performance fees). causing clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments in markets that they perceive to offer greater opportunity and that the company does not serve. causing clients to rebalance assets away from investments that the company manages into investments that the company does not manage. causing clients to reallocate assets away from products that earn higher revenues into products that earn lower revenues. underperformance of client accounts relative to competing products could exacerbate these factors. assuming the revenue yield on aum for the year remains unchanged, a 10% decline in the average aum for the year would result in a corresponding decline in revenue. certain expenses, including distribution and compensation expenses, may not vary in proportion with the changes in the market value of aum. as such, the impact on operating margin or net income of a decline in the market values of aum may be greater or less than the percentage decline in the market value of aum. securities market risk the company's exposure to market risk from financial instruments measured at fair value arises from its investments and also from its contingent consideration liability. the following table summarizes the impact of a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values or the market inputs contributing to the fair value of these financial instruments: december 31, 2015 $ in millions fair value fair value assuming 10% increase fair value assuming 10% decrease available-for-sale investments (a) 233.2 256.5 209.9 trading investments (b) 402.7 443.0 362.4 total assets measured at fair value exposed to market risk 635.9 699.5 572.3 direct investments in csip and cip (c) 180.0 198.0 162.0 contingent consideration liability (d) (83.9 ) (91.0 ) (76.1 ) a. any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale investments are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, until the investment is sold or otherwise disposed of, or if the investment is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in income. the company evaluates the carrying value of investments for impairment on a quarterly basis. in its impairment analysis, the company takes into consideration numerous criteria, including the duration and extent of any decline in fair value, and the intent and ability of the company to hold the security for a period of time sufficient for a recovery in value. if the decline in value is determined to be other-than-temporary, the carrying value of the security is generally written down to fair value through the consolidated statement of income. if such a 10% increase or decrease in fair values were to occur, it would not result in an other-than-temporary impairment charge that would be material to our pre-tax earnings. b. if such a 10% increase or decrease in fair values were to occur, the change attributable to $402.7 million of these trading investments would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings. at december 31, 2015 , $158.8 75 table of contents million of these trading investments are held to hedge economically certain deferred compensation plans in which the company participates. the company recognizes as compensation expense the appreciation or depreciation of the compensation liability over the award's vesting period in proportion to the vested amount of the award. the company immediately recognizes the appreciation or depreciation of these investments, which is included in other gains and losses. this creates a timing difference between the recognition of the compensation expense and the investment gain or loss impacting net income, which will reverse and will offset to zero over the life of the award at the end of the multi-year vesting period. c. these represent invesco's direct investments in investment products that are consolidated. upon consolidation, these direct investments are eliminated, and the assets and liabilities of the cip and csip are consolidated in the consolidated balance sheet, together with a noncontrolling interest balance representing the portion of the cip and csip owned by third parties. if a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values of invesco's direct investments in cip and csip were to occur, it would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our net income attributable to invesco ltd. d. during the first quarter of 2015, the company acquired investment management contracts from deutsche bank. this liability represents the purchase price, which was comprised solely of contingent consideration payable in future periods and is linked to future revenues generated from the contracts. the contingent consideration liability was recorded at fair value at the acquisition date and subsequent changes in the fair value are recorded in other gains and losses, net in the consolidated statements of income. if a 10% increase or decrease in the fair value of the contingent consideration liability were to occur, it would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our net income attributable to invesco ltd. cash balances invested in money market funds of $383.3 million have been excluded from the table above. these are valued under the market approach at the net asset value of the underlying funds, which is maintained at $1. assets held for policyholders of $6,051.5 million have also been excluded from the table above. the entity holds assets that are managed for its clients on its balance sheet with an equal and offsetting liability to the policyholders, which is linked to the value of the investments. the investments and the policyholder payables held by this business are carried in the consolidated balance sheets as separate account assets and liabilities at fair value in accordance with asc topic 944, financial services - insurance. changes in fair value are recorded and offset to zero in the consolidated statements of income in other operating revenues. increases or decreases in the fair value of these investments will therefore have no impact to our pre-tax earnings. interest rate risk interest rate risk relates to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its external debt and cash and cash equivalent investments. on december 31, 2015 , the interest rates on 100.0% of the company's borrowings were fixed for a weighted average period of 12.0 years. borrowings under the credit facility will have floating interest rates. the interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the company on december 31 was: $ in millions december 31, 2015 december 31, 2014 long-term debt fixed rate 2,072.8 1,576.8 floating rate total 2,072.8 1,576.8 weighted average interest rate percentage 4.0 % 4.0 % weighted average period for which rate is fixed in years 12.0 13.6 see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 8 , debt for additional disclosures relating to the u.s. dollar floating and fixed rate obligations. the company's only fixed interest financial assets at december 31, 2015 , are foreign time deposit investments of $24.7 million ( 2014 : $29.6 million ). the weighted average interest rate on these investments is 0.39% ( 2014 : 0.48% ) and the weighted average time for which the rate is fixed is 0.2 years ( 2014 : 0.3 years). 76 table of contents foreign exchange rate risk the company has transactional currency exposures that occur when any of the company's subsidiaries receive or pay cash in a currency different from its functional currency. such exposure arises from sales or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. these exposures are not actively managed. the company also has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets and results of operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risk when translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation into invesco ltd. a strengthening u.s. dollar has a negative impact on the company's foreign currency denominated earnings when presented in u.s. dollars. the company's most significant foreign exchange rate risk exposure relates to the translation of pound sterling-denominated transactions into the u.s. dollar reporting currency. item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 17 , "geographic information," contains disclosure of revenue from external customers by geography. the disclosure of revenues from external customers earned in the u.k. is an indicator of the company's exposure to the pound sterling; however, expenses incurred in the u.k. provide a natural offset to the company's exposure to the pound sterling. a 10% decline in the pound sterling from the current rate will result in an approximate 5-6 cent decline in annual earnings per share, and an erosion of 10-20 basis points of operating margin. given this exposure, in january 2015 the company entered into a series of out-of-the money put option contracts to hedge economically approximately 75% of the foreign currency risk on the translation of its pound sterling-denominated earnings into u.s. dollars for 2015 and the first quarter of 2016. the economic hedge is predominantly triggered upon the impact of a decline in the pound sterling/u.s. dollar foreign exchange rate below $1.493. at december 31, 2015, a 10% decline in the pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rate would result in the put option fair value increasing to approximately $12.0 million. a 10% increase in the pound sterling to u.s. dollar rate would result in the put option fair value decreasing to zero. in january 2016 the company entered into a new series of put option contracts to provide coverage from april 2016 through to march 2017 with a strike level set at $1.4355. in these transactions, the reference rate is an average foreign exchange rate for the applicable time frame. the company is exposed to foreign exchange revaluation into the consolidated statements of income on monetary assets and liabilities that are held by subsidiaries in different functional currencies than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. net foreign exchange revaluation losses were $1.7 million in 2015 ( 2014 : $1.8 million of gains), and are included in general and administrative expenses and other gains and losses, net on the consolidated statements of income. we continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange revaluation. 77 table of contents supplementary quarterly financial data the following is selected unaudited consolidated data for invesco ltd. for the quarters indicated: 2015 2014 $ in millions, except per share data q4 q3 q2 q1 q4 q3 q2 q1 operating revenues: investment management fees 987.1 1,016.9 1,055.7 1,001.4 1,009.5 1,047.3 1,031.9 965.4 service and distribution fees 207.6 214.8 219.6 213.4 217.7 222.1 214.7 238.6 performance fees 16.8 15.6 6.7 46.8 16.8 8.2 5.0 31.1 other 28.2 26.2 36.1 30.0 32.7 33.4 38.3 34.4 total operating revenues 1,239.7 1,273.5 1,318.1 1,291.6 1,276.7 1,311.0 1,289.9 1,269.5 operating expenses: employee compensation 349.8 337.6 347.2 360.9 345.7 343.8 342.9 362.1 third-party distribution, service and advisory 375.2 392.3 413.3 399.1 394.5 420.2 410.6 405.4 marketing 34.1 24.9 29.7 26.7 31.9 26.6 30.2 23.4 property, office and technology 81.3 79.0 74.8 76.9 72.0 76.4 75.3 112.7 general and administrative 95.7 87.0 89.1 89.9 84.4 114.4 76.1 121.6 total operating expenses 936.1 920.8 954.1 953.5 928.5 981.4 935.1 1,025.2 operating income 303.6 352.7 364.0 338.1 348.2 329.6 354.8 244.3 other income/(expense): equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 3.1 8.2 12.0 11.8 6.4 10.9 5.5 10.0 interest and dividend income 5.5 2.4 2.6 2.5 4.5 2.6 3.1 2.9 interest expense (23.0 ) (20.4 ) (19.6 ) (18.7 ) (18.1 ) (18.1 ) (18.2 ) (18.7 ) other gains and losses, net 3.7 0.9 (8.8 ) 2.7 6.6 (1.3 ) 16.2 6.6 other income/(expense) of csip, net 0.8 (3.6 ) 5.1 9.4 1.0 7.4 7.7 8.2 cip: interest and dividend income of cip 63.0 64.7 65.1 60.2 56.8 53.4 48.0 48.3 interest expense of cip (50.6 ) (45.9 ) (47.3 ) (45.1 ) (35.8 ) (37.5 ) (30.3 ) (30.3 ) other gains/(losses) of cip, net (24.4 ) (17.3 ) (19.7 ) 24.4 (43.0 ) 0.1 36.8 26.5 income from continuing operations before income taxes 281.7 341.7 353.4 385.3 326.6 347.1 423.6 297.8 income tax provision (86.9 ) (100.4 ) (109.4 ) (101.3 ) (99.7 ) (94.9 ) (107.0 ) (89.0 ) income from continuing operations, net of taxes 194.8 241.3 244.0 284.0 226.9 252.2 316.6 208.8 income from discontinued operations, net of taxes (1.0 ) (0.6 ) 0.2 (2.0 ) net income 194.8 241.3 244.0 284.0 225.9 251.6 316.8 206.8 net (income)/loss attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities, net 7.1 8.0 13.3 (24.4 ) 43.9 4.4 (42.3 ) (19.0 ) net income attributable to invesco ltd. 201.9 249.3 257.3 259.6 269.8 256.0 274.5 187.8 earnings per share*: basic earnings per share from continuing operations $0.48 $0.58 $0.60 $0.60 $0.63 $0.59 $0.63 $0.43 earnings per share from discontinued operations $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ basic earnings per share $0.48 $0.58 $0.60 $0.60 $0.62 $0.59 $0.63 $0.43 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations $0.48 $0.58 $0.60 $0.60 $0.62 $0.59 $0.63 $0.43 earnings per share from discontinued operations $ $ $ $ $ $ $ $ diluted earnings per share $0.48 $0.58 $0.60 $0.60 $0.62 $0.59 $0.63 $0.43 average shares outstanding*: - basic 422.9 428.8 431.9 432.2 433.2 434.3 435.7 436.8 - diluted 423.2 429.1 432.2 432.5 433.6 434.8 436.4 437.4 dividends declared per share: $0.2700 $0.2700 $0.2700 $0.2500 $0.2500 $0.2500 $0.2500 $0.2250 ____________ * the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may differ from the annual earnings per share amounts due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in interim periods. 78 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively affect invesco's revenues, operations, financial condition and liquidity. in recent years, capital and credit markets have experienced substantial volatility. in this regard: in the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure or disruptions in the global financial system or failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in aum and severe liquidity or valuation problems in managed investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and ability to retain and attract key employees. additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. in addition to the impact of the market volatility on client portfolios, illiquidity and/or volatility of the global fixed income and/or equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows or to timely meet client redemption requests. in the u.s., regulations requiring a variable ( floating ) net asset value (nav) for institutional prime and tax-free money market funds became effective in october 2016. those same regulations also provide for the potential imposition of the assessment of fees in connection with redemptions and/or gates that postpone the time in which redemptions must be processed in the event those funds' weekly liquid assets fall below certain specified thresholds. our government money market funds and retail prime and tax-free money market funds continue to offer a stable nav of $1.00 per share and are not required to impose fees and gates; however, we do not guarantee such nav level. market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could lead to the imposition of fees or gates with respect to institutional prime and tax-free money market funds and an affect on the navs of government and retail prime and tax-free money market funds. if our institutional prime or tax-free money market funds were to impose redemption fees or gates delaying the payment of redemption proceeds, or the nav of one of our government or retail prime or tax-free money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in aum, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. even as central bank, legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts continue to stabilize the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. more broadly, uncertainties regarding geopolitical developments can produce volatility in global financial markets. as an example, the u.k. electorate voted on june 23, 2016 to exit the european union (brexit). the vote to exit resulted in market volatility that may continue during the brexit negotiation process. this may impact the levels and composition of our aum and also negatively impact investor sentiment, which could result in reduced or negative flows. in addition, because the u.k. pound sterling is the functional currency for certain of our subsidiaries, any weakening of the u.k. pound sterling relative to the u.s. dollar could negatively impact our reported financial results. we may not adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in global financial markets. if we are unable to effect appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace, our profitability, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected by any reduction in aum as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. we derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of aum. aum may decline for various reasons. for any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin likely would decline by a greater proportion because a majority of expenses remain fixed. factors that could decrease aum (and therefore revenues) include the following: 11 table of contents declines in the market value of aum in client portfolios. these could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which our aum are concentrated. approximately 45% of our total aum were invested in the equity asset class and approximately 55% were invested in the fixed income asset class and other asset classes at december 31, 2016 . our aum as of january 31, 2017 were $825.3 billion . we cannot predict whether volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our aum are concentrated. any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin. redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, client portfolios. these could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in client portfolios in general or in the market segments in which invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance of the client portfolios managed by invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales and increased redemptions with corresponding decreases in our revenues. failure of our client portfolios to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and other alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, stable return accounts, and certain etfs. our revenues may decline if clients continue to shift their investments to lower fee accounts. in addition, the loss of key personnel or significant investment management professionals could reduce the attractiveness of our products to current and potential clients and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. investments in international markets . investment products that we manage may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, and diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization and asset confiscation. international trading markets, particularly emerging markets and frontier markets, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the developed world. our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time. substantially all of our revenues are derived from investment management agreements. investment management agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days' notice. agreements with u.s. registered funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the event of an assignment (as defined in the investment company act of 1940, as amended), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund's board of trustees or directors, as required by law. in addition, the boards of trustees or directors of certain other fund accounts generally may terminate these investment management agreements upon written notice for any reason. open-end registered fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of aum, generally on short notice. any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or aum, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility. certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. these redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. in addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of fixed income investments and fixed income derivatives held in various investment portfolios and other products. thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from money market portfolios and from other fixed income products. if securities within a money market portfolio default or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its nav. although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining nav. some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. additionally, we have investments in fixed income assets, including collateralized loan obligations and seed money in fixed income funds, the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates. 12 table of contents performance fees may increase revenue and earnings volatility. a portion of the company's revenues is derived from performance fees on investment advisory assignments. performance fees represented $44.3 million , or 0.9% , of total operating revenues for the year ended december 31, 2016 . in most cases, performance fees are based on relative or absolute investment returns, although in some cases they are based on achieving specific service standards. generally, the company is entitled to performance fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. if these targets are not exceeded, performance fees for that period will not be earned and, if targets are based on cumulative returns, the company may not earn performance fees in future periods. performance fees will vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns and the timing of revenue recognition, causing earnings to be more volatile. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we, and the client portfolios that we manage, have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, clearing organizations, hedge funds and other institutions. many of these transactions expose us or such client portfolios to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty. while we regularly conduct assessments of such risk posed by counterparties, the risk of non-performance by such parties is subject to sudden swings in the financial and credit markets. our financial condition and liquidity would be adversely affected by losses on our seed capital and co-investments . the company has investments in managed investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including, but not limited to equities, fixed income products, commodities, derivatives, and similar financial instruments, private equity and real estate. investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks, or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed capital and co-investments. a reduction in the value of these investments may adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. as of december 31, 2016 , the company had $956.8 million in seed capital and co-investments, including direct investments in consolidated investment products (cip). we operate in an industry that is highly regulated in many countries, and any enforcement action or adverse changes in the laws or regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict our business activities, conduct examinations, risk assessments, investigations and capital adequacy reviews, and impose remedial programs to address perceived deficiencies. as a result of regulatory oversight, we could face requirements which negatively impact the way in which we conduct business, increase compliance costs and/or impose additional capital requirements. our regulators likewise have the authority to commence enforcement actions which could lead to sanctions up to and including the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel or the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities, or in private litigation against us, could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues. any of the effects discussed above could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. a substantial portion of the products and services we offer are regulated by the securities and exchange commission (sec), financial industry regulatory authority (finra), the commodities future trading commission (cftc), the national futures association (nfa) and the texas department of banking in the united states and by the financial conduct authority (fca) and the prudential regulatory authority (pra) in the united kingdom. subsidiaries operating in the european union (eu) are subject to various eu directives, which generally are implemented by member state national legislation. our operations elsewhere in the world are regulated by similar regulatory organizations. the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen a significant increase in regulation in recent years. various changes in laws and regulations have been enacted or otherwise implemented in multiple jurisdictions globally in response to the crisis in the financial markets that began in 2007. various other proposals remain under consideration by legislators, regulators, other government officials and other public policy commentators. certain enacted provisions and certain other proposals are potentially far reaching and, depending upon their implementation, could have a material impact on invesco's business. while certain of these provisions appear to address perceived problems in the banking sector, some will or may be applied more broadly 13 table of contents and affect other financial services companies, including investment managers. we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. to the extent that existing regulations are interpreted or amended or future regulations are adopted in a manner that reduces the sale, or increases the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affects the investment performance of our products or impacts our product mix, our aggregate aum and our revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, regulatory changes have imposed and may continue to impose additional costs or capital requirements, which could negatively impact our profitability or return on equity. in the united states, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (dodd-frank act) was signed into law in july 2010. while invesco does not believe that the dodd-frank act has or will fundamentally change the investment management industry or cause invesco to reconsider its basic strategy, certain provisions have required, and other provisions will or may require, us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also have increased regulatory burdens and related compliance costs, and will or may continue to do so. moreover, the dodd-frank act mandated many regulatory studies, some of which pertain directly to the investment management industry, which could lead to additional legislation or regulation. in december 2014, then sec chair mary jo white announced a comprehensive agenda for regulatory change governing the u.s. asset management industry and directed sec staff to develop a five-part series of new regulations addressing the topics of enhanced portfolio reporting, liquidity risk management, leverage and use of derivatives, adviser wind up and stress testing for funds and advisers. rules proposed in 2015 for the first two of these initiatives became final in october 2016. these new industry rules can be expected to add additional reporting and compliance costs and may affect the development of new products and the ability to continue to offer certain strategies through a registered investment company format. the eu has promulgated or is considering various new or revised directives pertaining to financial services, including investment managers. such directives are progressing at various stages, and generally have been, are being or will or would be implemented by national legislation in member states. as with the dodd-frank act, invesco does not believe implementation of these directives will fundamentally change our industry or cause us to reconsider our fundamental strategy, but certain provisions have required, and other provisions will or may require, us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also have increased regulatory burdens and compliance costs, and will or may continue to do so. similar developments are being implemented or considered in other jurisdictions where we do business; which could have similar effects. developments under regulatory changes will or may include, without limitation: expanded regulation over investment management firms. new or increased capital requirements and related regulation. change to the regulation of money market funds in the eu requiring capital buffers. limitations on holdings of certain commodities under proposed regulations of the cftc which could result in capacity constraints for our products that employ commodities as part of their investment strategy. the u.s. department of labor adopted regulations in april 2016 that treat as fiduciaries any person who provides investment advice or recommendations to employee benefit plans, plan fiduciaries, plan participants, plan beneficiaries, individual retirement accounts (iras) or ira owners. the regulations have wide-ranging consequences for invesco and our u.s. distribution partners and product line. under the new rules, firms and individuals who recommend financial products to retirement investors would be required to act in the best interest of the investor and, to receive variable compensation, would be required to enter into a contract with clients and produce complex disclosure documents intended to highlight financial conflicts of interest that may arise from the compensation the financial adviser receives from firms like invesco. these rules are scheduled to begin to be implemented in april 2017, with full implementation by january 2018. other changes to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products. in the u.s., the sec previously has proposed and may repropose significant changes to rule 12b-1, and may propose other regulatory changes impacting distribution of investment funds. invesco believes these proposals could increase operational and compliance costs. the eu has implemented the alternative investment fund manager directive (aifmd); implementing legislation in member states has, among other elements, imposed restrictions on the marketing and sale within the eu of private equity and other alternative investment funds sponsored by non-eu managers. various regulators promulgated or are considering other new disclosure or suitability requirements pertaining to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products, including enhanced standards and requirements pertaining to disclosures made to retail investors at the point of sale. in 2015, the fca undertook a study of the asset management industry and released their interim report at the end of november 2016. it highlighted a number of specific industry issues and proposed a number of potential remedies, including: proposed changes to governance, changes to fee structures to provide clients with increased transparency, improved disclosure in client documentation, improved ability for retail clients to change share classes and changes to 14 table of contents pension pooling and investment consultant regulations in the institutional segment. conclusions are not expected until mid-to-late 2017. the markets in financial instruments directive ii (mifid ii) in the eu seeks to promote a single market for wholesale and retail transactions in financial instruments. mifid ii addresses the conduct of business rules for intermediaries providing investment services and the effective, efficient and safe operation of financial markets. key elements of mifid ii are the extent to which retrocessions may be paid and the use of trading commissions to fund research. an increased focus on liquidity in fixed income funds. increased regulatory scrutiny on operations of private equity funds. guidelines regarding the structure and components of fund manager compensation. requirements pertaining to the trading of securities and other financial instruments, such as swaps and other derivatives, including certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and european market infrastructure regulation; these include significant reporting requirements, designated trading venues, mandated central clearing arrangements, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain financial institutions, other conduct requirements and potentially new taxes or similar fees. heightened regulatory examinations and inspections, including enforcement reviews, and a more aggressive posture regarding commencing enforcement proceedings resulting in fines, penalties and additional remedial activities to firms and to individuals. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, regulators in the united states and the united kingdom have taken and can be expected to continue to take a more aggressive posture on bringing enforcement proceedings. enhanced licensing and qualification requirements for key personnel. other additional rules and regulations and disclosure requirements. certain provisions impose additional disclosure burdens on public companies. certain proposals could impose requirements for more widespread disclosures of compensation to highly-paid individuals. depending upon the scope of any such requirements, invesco could be disadvantaged in retaining key employees vis- -vis private companies, including hedge fund sponsors. strengthening standards regarding various ethical matters, including compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and anti-money-laundering laws and regulations. regulations promulgated to address perceptions that the asset management industry, or certain of its entities or activities, pose systematic risks to the financial system. regulations promulgated to protect personal data and address risks of fraud, malfeasance or other adverse consequences stemming from cyber attacks. regulations pertaining to the privacy of data with respect to clients, employees and business partners. other changes impacting the identity or the organizational structure of regulators with supervisory authority over invesco. invesco cannot at this time predict the full impact of potential legal and regulatory changes or possible enforcement proceedings on its business. such changes have imposed, and may continue to impose, new compliance costs and/or capital requirements or impact invesco in other ways that could have a material adverse impact on invesco's results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. similarly, regulatory enforcement actions which impose significant penalties or compliance obligations or which result in significant reputational harm could have similar material adverse effects on invesco. moreover, certain legal or regulatory changes could require us to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur other new constraints or costs, including the investment of significant management time and resources in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. in recent years, certain regulatory developments have also added downward pressures regarding fee levels. to the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of our products and services or our investment strategies cause or contribute to reduced sales or increased redemptions of our products, impair the investment performance of our products or impact our product mix, our aggregate aum and results of operations might be adversely affected. distribution of earnings of our subsidiaries may be subject to limitations, including net capital requirements. substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, intercompany loans or other payments by our subsidiaries to us. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries ' earnings and business considerations. for example, certain of our subsidiaries are required under applicable laws and regulations to maintain minimum levels of capital. such requirements may change from time-to-time as additional guidance is released based on a variety of factors, including balance sheet composition, assessment of risk exposures and governance and review from regulators. these and other similar provisions of applicable laws and regulations may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. all of our regulated eu subsidiaries are subject to consolidated capital requirements under eu directives, including those arising 15 table of contents from the eu's capital requirements directive iv (crd iv) and the u.k. fca's internal capital adequacy assessment process (icaap), and capital is maintained within this sub-group to satisfy these regulations. we meet these requirements in part by holding cash and cash equivalents. this retained cash can be used for general business purposes in the european sub-group in the countries where it is located. due to the capital restrictions, the ability to transfer cash between certain jurisdictions may be limited. in addition, transfers of cash between international jurisdictions may have adverse tax consequences. as of december 31, 2016, the company's minimum regulatory capital requirement was $590.8 million (december 31, 2015: $534.7 million). complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the european sub-group. as a result of corporate restructuring and regulatory requirements, certain of these eu subsidiaries may be required to limit their dividends to the ultimate parent company, invesco ltd. our financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute funds to us. civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions could adversely affect our aum and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business. invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings, including civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions. these actions can arise from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory reviews. further, as a global company with investment products registered in numerous countries and subject to the jurisdiction of one or more regulators in each country, at any given time, our business operations may be subject to review, investigation or disciplinary action. for example, in the united states, united kingdom and other jurisdictions in which the company operates, governmental authorities regularly make inquiries, hold investigations and administer market conduct examinations with respect to the company's compliance with applicable laws and regulations. lawsuits or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of these inquiries may in the future be filed against the company and related entities and individuals in the united states, united kingdom and other jurisdictions in which the company and its affiliates operate. see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 18 -- "commitments and contingencies, for additional information. judgments in civil litigation or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. we are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states. we have offices in numerous countries and sponsor many cross border and local proprietary funds that are domiciled outside the united states and may face difficulties in managing, operating and marketing our international operations. our international operations expose us to the political and economic consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions and subject us to expropriation risks, expatriation controls and potential adverse tax consequences. terrorist activity and the continued threat of terrorism, as well as increased geopolitical unrest could adversely affect the global economy or specific international, regional and domestic markets, which may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. terrorist activity and the continued threat of terrorism and acts of civil or international hostility, both within the united states and abroad, as well as ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and declines in the global markets, loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. acts of terror may also result in increased border security between countries which could adversely affect trade, impede growth and exacerbate refugee crises arising out of civil or international conflicts. continued geopolitical unrest and terrorist activity that adversely affect the global economy, capital markets or specific international, regional or domestic markets may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. 16 table of contents our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of key individuals or a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. retaining highly skilled technical and management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain our clients. the market for investment management professionals is competitive and has become more so in periods of growth of the investment management industry. the market for investment professionals and other key personnel is at times characterized by the movement of these professionals among different firms. our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals and other key personnel with a supportive professional working environment and compensation and benefits (including equity and other forms of deferred compensation) that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. however, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of significant investment professionals or other key personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. if our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income. our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and our good reputation is critical to our business. our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries, investigations or findings of wrongdoing, intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications, operational failures (including cyber breaches), employee dishonesty or other misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or eventually satisfactorily addressed. our business also requires us continuously to manage actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of other clients or those of invesco. the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if we fail - or appear to fail - to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address and manage these risks, but this task can be complex and difficult, and if our procedures and controls fail, our reputation could be damaged. any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our aum, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. the failure or negative performance of products offered by competitors may have a negative impact on similar invesco products irrespective of our performance. many competitors offer similar products to those offered by invesco and the failure or negative performance of competitors' products could lead to a loss of confidence in similar invesco products, irrespective of the performance of such products. any loss of confidence in a product type could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. failure to establish adequate controls and risk management policies, the circumvention of controls and policies or fraud could have an adverse effect on our reputation and financial position. we have established a comprehensive risk management process and continue to enhance various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risks to our business; however, we cannot be assured that such controls, procedures, policies and systems will successfully identify and manage internal and external risks to our business. we are subject to the risk that our employees, contractors or other third parties may deliberately seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud (including through cyber breaches) or act in ways that are inconsistent with our controls, policies and procedures. persistent or repeated attempts involving conflicts of interests, circumvention of policies and controls or fraud could have a materially adverse impact on our reputation and could lead to costly regulatory inquiries. 17 table of contents failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines could result in damage awards against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. many of the investment management agreements under which we manage assets or provide products or services specify investment guidelines or requirements that invesco is required to observe in the provision of its services. laws and regulations impose similar requirements for certain client portfolios (such as registered funds). a failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts. regulators likewise may commence enforcement actions for violations of such requirements. any such effects could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. we maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to prevent, detect and correct such errors. when an error is detected, a payment will typically be made into the applicable client account to correct it. significant errors for which we are responsible could impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, increase commissions paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries or could limit or reduce sales of our products, all of which could reduce our profitability. the investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and financial intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. we continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products. investors are increasingly attracted to lower fee passive products, which have gained and may continue to gain share at the expense of active products. we face strong competition in every market in which we operate. our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. our competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. if these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various distribution channels around the world have also resulted in increased competition. in recent years there have been several instances of industry consolidation, both in the area of distributors and manufacturers of investment products. further consolidation may occur in these areas in the future. the increasing size and market influence of certain distributors of our products and of certain direct competitors may have a negative impact on our ability to compete at the same levels of profitability in the future, should we find ourselves unable to maintain relevance in the markets in which we compete. we may be unable to develop new products and services and the development of new products and services may expose us to additional costs or operational risk. our financial performance depends, in part, on the company's ability to develop, market and manage new investment products and services. the development and introduction of new products and services requires continued innovative efforts on our part and may require significant time and resources as well as ongoing support and investment. substantial risk and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including the implementation of new and appropriate operational controls and procedures, shifting client and market preferences, the introduction of competing products or services and compliance with regulatory requirements. new products often must be in the market place for three or more years in order to generate track records required to attract significant aum inflows. a failure to continue to innovate to introduce successful new products and services or to manage effectively the risks associated with such products and services may impact our market share relevance and may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. we may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. we regularly review, and from time-to-time have discussions with and engage in, potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to pursue such transactions, be successful in negotiating the required agreements, or successfully close transactions after signing such agreements. 18 table of contents acquisitions also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if pending transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to closing or integration. following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. there can be no assurance that such sellers will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. our ability to maintain our credit ratings and to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors. our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. we have received credit ratings of a/stable from standard &amp; poor's ratings services, a2/stable from moody's and a-/positive from fitch ratings, as of the date hereof. we believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to the fact that our revenues are exposed to equity market volatility and the potential impact from regulatory changes to the industry. additionally, the rating agencies could decide to downgrade the entire investment management industry, based on their perspective of future growth and solvency. material deterioration of these factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit ratings, thereby limiting our ability to generate additional financing. our credit facility borrowing rates are tied to our credit ratings. management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings. a reduction in our long-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, could limit our access to the capital markets and may result in outflows thereby reducing aum and revenues. volatility in global finance markets may also affect our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so. if we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. as of december 31, 2016 , we had outstanding total debt of $2,102.4 million , excluding debt of cip, and total equity attributable to invesco ltd. of $7,503.8 million . the amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient assets or liquidity to repay such amounts in full. our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios. this credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. the breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or due to a significant and prolonged market-driven decline in our operating results) would result in a default under the credit facility. in the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if any indebtedness under the credit facility were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full. 19 table of contents changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our net revenues and hinder our growth. we sell substantially all of our retail investment products through a variety of third party financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, fund supermarkets, regional broker-dealers, insurance companies, banks and financial planners in north america, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and supermarket platforms in europe and asia. no single one of these intermediaries is material to our business. increasing competition for these distribution channels could nevertheless cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. following the financial crisis, there has been consolidation of banks and broker-dealers, particularly in the u.s., and a limited amount of migration of brokers and financial advisors away from major banks to independent firms focused largely on providing advice. if these changes continue, our distribution costs could increase as a percentage of our revenues generated. additionally, particularly outside of the u.s., certain of the third party intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. investors, particularly in the institutional market, rely on external consultants and other third parties for advice on the choice of investment manager. these consultants and third parties tend to exert a significant degree of influence over their clients' choices, and they may favor a competitor of invesco as better meeting their particular clients' needs. there is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. if a material portion of our distributors were to cease operations, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources and the consultant community would impair our ability to sell our products, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. our business is vulnerable to deficiencies and failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to breaches and errors or reputational harm, resulting in loss of customers or claims against us or our subsidiaries. in addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, marketing, shareholder servicing and trust, custody and other fiduciary services. in order to be competitive and comply with our agreements, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations and required distributions to fund shareholders. the ability to consistently and reliably obtain accurate securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and clients in accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. certain types of securities may experience liquidity constraints that would require increased use of fair value pricing, which is dependent on certain subjective judgments that have the potential to be challenged. any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports or other breaches and errors and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate customers and potentially give rise to claims against us. our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party service providers. certain of these processes involve a degree of manual input, and thus problems could occur from time-to-time due to human error. our failure to properly perform and monitor our operations or our otherwise suffering deficiencies and failures in these systems or service functions could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. the failure of one of our third party service providers or other key vendors to fulfill its obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or business, which may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. we depend on third party service providers and other key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody, risk analytics, market data, market indices and transfer agent roles, and other distribution and operational needs. if our third party service providers or other key vendors fail to fulfill their obligations to us, it could lead to operational and regulatory problems, including with respect to certain of our products, which could result in losses, enforcement actions, or reputational harm and may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. we depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems or facilities, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could result in significant limits on our ability to conduct our operations and activities, costs and reputational damage. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we are also dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security infrastructure, policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. we use our technology to, among other things, manage and trade portfolio investments, support our other operations, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, protect the 20 table of contents privacy of clients', employees' and business partners' data and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. any inaccuracies, delays, systems failures or security breaches in these and other processes could disrupt our business operations, subject us to client, employee or business partner dissatisfaction and losses and/or subject us to reputational harm. our computer, communications, data processing, networks, backup, business continuity or other operating, information or technology systems and facilities, including those that we outsource to other providers, may fail to operate properly or become disabled, overloaded or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an external hacker attack by one or more cyber criminals or an authorized employee or vendor causing us to release confidential information inadvertently or through malfeasance, or lose temporarily or permanently data or applications or systems, which could materially harm our operations and reputation. the third parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries and technology infrastructure and service providers, are also susceptible to the foregoing risks (including regarding the third parties with which they are similarly interconnected or on which they otherwise rely), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom we or they are interconnected or conduct business. breach of our technology systems could damage our reputation and could result in the unauthorized disclosure or modification or loss of sensitive or confidential information (including client data); unauthorized disclosure modification or loss of proprietary information relating to our business; inability to process client or company transactions and processes; breach and termination of client contracts; liability for stolen assets, information or identity; remediation costs to repair damage caused by the breach, including damage to systems and recovery of lost data; additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents; regulatory actions (including fines and penalties, which could be material) and litigation costs resulting from the incident. such consequences could result in material financial loss and have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. if we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we believe our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems should mitigate adverse impacts. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational problems with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or technology personnel. further, as we strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. although we seek to assess regularly and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the united states and have functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. the largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our aum, is presently denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the united states whose functional currencies are not the u.s. dollar. as a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. consequently, significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the u.k. pound sterling, euro, or canadian dollar, among other currencies, could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results. 21 table of contents the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we have goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to annual impairment reviews. we also have definite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to impairment testing if indicators of impairment are identified. goodwill and intangible assets totaled $6,129.2 million and $1,399.4 million , respectively, at december 31, 2016 ( december 31, 2015 : $6,175.7 million and $1,354.0 million , respectively). we may not realize the value of such assets. we perform impairment reviews of the book values of these assets on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. a variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related assets would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting policies - goodwill and - intangibles, for additional details of our impairment analysis process. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. there is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation. on october 21, 2016, the united states treasury and the irs published final and temporary regulations under section 385 of the internal revenue code (the "385 regulations") that (i) establish threshold documentation requirements that ordinarily must be satisfied in order for certain related-party interests in a corporation to be treated as indebtedness for u.s. federal income tax purposes; and (ii) treat as stock certain related-party interests that otherwise would be treated as indebtedness for u.s. federal income purposes. the 385 regulations target the inbound financing of a foreign-parented multinational group's u.s. subsidiaries while limiting their applicability to u.s. based multinational organizations. the documentation rules apply to debt issued on or after january 1, 2018, and to debt issued after that date pursuant to an "overall arrangement" in effect prior to that date, however the 385 regulations apply retroactively to debt transacted or issued on or after april 4, 2016. there are no immediate impacts to the company's financial position as a result of the application of the 385 regulations, in particular, as there are broad exceptions for intercompany loans that are short-term in form and substance (cash pooling, short term advances, short-term ordinary course of business payables, etc.). on a go forward basis, the 385 regulations could limit our ability to efficiently finance or otherwise choose between debt and equity transactions with our u.s. subsidiaries. both the extensive documentation rules and lengthy testing period of the 385 regulations will lead to increased complexity and compliance costs. it is unclear at this time how the 385 regulations will be interpreted or adopted for state income tax purposes and therefore our assessment cannot be completed until further guidance is issued. on october 5, 2015, the organization for economic co-operation and development (oecd) released its final reports related to its action plan for multilateral cooperation to address tax base erosion and profit shifting (beps) concerns. the second phase of the beps project covers clarifications, implementation, and monitoring. countries have implemented some of the action items and will continue to adopt more of them over the next several years. as with any global implementation process there are concerns about potential lack of consistency in the local application of these items. some of the recommendations are complex while others contain optional routes, thereby increasing the likelihood of only partial or limited implementation. countries may also decide to implement their own approaches unilaterally, independent of the beps recommendations. this could lead to increased uncertainty with tax positions as well as increase the potential for double taxation. we continually assess the impact of various u.s. federal, state and foreign legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, which could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal, state or foreign taxes. from time-to-time, proposals are introduced in the u.s. congress that, if ultimately enacted, could either limit treaty benefits on certain payments made by our u.s. subsidiaries to non-u.s. affiliates, treat the company as a u.s. corporation and thereby subject the earnings from non-u.s. subsidiaries of the company to u.s. taxation, or both. there is a likelihood that some form of fundamental u.s. corporate tax reform is enacted in 2017 and 2018. at this point in time no specific proposals have been submitted to congress so the nature of any reform has not yet been determined. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our future results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 22 table of contents examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes (and, in certain cases, interest, fines or penalties). we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. the european commission ("ec") continues to investigate certain transfer pricing rulings given by member states to particular taxpayers that it believes may have violated the eu restriction on state aid. the investigation was triggered by the oecd / beps action plan as well as the eu's own agenda to tackle aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance. there is considerable uncertainty with the approach being taken, including retroactive application (10 year period), conflicts with oecd transfer pricing guidelines and implications to bilateral tax treaties. while the company does not believe it has received state aid and is not a party to any investigation, due to the uncertainty of the process and retroactive nature of the assessments any potential future findings could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our future results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to shareholders. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a company incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda (companies act). the companies act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. under bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances described in the following paragraph. however, directors and officers may owe duties to a company's creditors in cases of impending insolvency. directors and officers of a bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. if a director or officer of a bermuda company is found to have breached such director's duties to that company, the director may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of bermuda. however, the bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow english case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in a company's name against the directors and officers to remedy a wrong done to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the company's corporate power or is illegal or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of shareholders than actually approved it. under our second amended and restated bye-laws (bye-laws), each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against the company or any of our officers, directors or employees. the waiver applies to any action taken by a director, officer or employee, or the failure of such person to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the director, officer or employee. this waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our directors, officers and employees unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. our bye-laws also provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his or her own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the companies act. 23 table of contents because we are incorporated in bermuda, it may be difficult for shareholders to serve process or enforce judgments against us or our directors and officers. the company is organized under the laws of bermuda. in addition, certain of our officers and directors reside in countries outside the united states. a substantial portion of the company's assets and the assets of these officers and directors are or may be located outside the united states. investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the united states on our directors and officers who reside outside the united states or recovering against the company or these directors and officers on judgments of u.s. courts based on civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws, even though the company has appointed an agent in the united states to receive service of process. further, it may not be possible in bermuda or in countries other than the united states where the company has assets to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against the company based on the civil liability provisions of u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against the company or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or would hear actions against the company or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised by our legal advisors in bermuda that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. some remedies available under the laws of the united states or the states therein, including some remedies available under the u.s. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in bermuda courts because they may be found to be contrary to bermuda public policy. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the united states based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in other countries other than the united states. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or to obtain majority representation on our board of directors without the consent of our board. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares under such circumstances. specifically, our bye-laws contain the following provisions that may impede or delay an unsolicited takeover of the company: we are prohibited from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination (as defined in our bye-laws) with any interested shareholder (as defined in our bye-laws) for three years following the date that the shareholder became an interested shareholder; our board of directors, without further shareholder action, is permitted by our bye-laws to issue preference shares, in one or more series, and determine by resolution any designations, preferences, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions, or special or relative rights of an additional series. the rights of preferred shareholders may supersede the rights of common shareholders; shareholders may only remove directors for cause (defined in our bye-laws to mean willful misconduct or gross negligence which is materially injurious to the company, fraud or embezzlement, or a conviction of, or a plea of guilty or no contest to, a felony); our board of directors is authorized to expand its size and fill vacancies; and shareholders cannot act by written consent unless the consent is unanimous. our independent registered public accounting firm has advised us that it identified an issue related to an independence requirement contained in the securities exchange act of 1934 regulations regarding auditor independence. in may 2016, pricewaterhousecoopers llp (pwc) advised the company that it had identified an issue related to its independence under rule 2-01(c)(1)(ii)(a) of regulation s-x (loan rule) with respect to certain of pwc's lenders who own certain invesco registered funds managed by certain of our wholly-owned investment adviser subsidiaries. the company and such funds are required to have their financial statements audited by a public accounting firm that qualifies as independent under various sec rules. as discussed below, the staff of the securities and exchange commission (sec staff) has issued a no-action letter to another mutual fund complex under substantially similar circumstances that provides temporary relief for eighteen months from the date of the no-action letter issuance. the loan rule prohibits accounting firms, such as pwc, from having certain financial relationships with their audit clients and affiliated entities. specifically, the loan rule provides, in relevant part, that an accounting firm is not independent if it receives a loan from a lender that is a record or beneficial owner of more than ten percent of the audit client's equity securities. for purposes of the loan rule, audit clients include all of the registered investment companies advised by affiliates of the company, 24 table of contents as well as the company and its other subsidiaries (collectively, the invesco funds complex) for which pwc also serves as independent auditor. pwc informed the company it has relationships with lenders who hold, as record owner, more than ten percent of the shares of certain funds within the invesco fund complex. these relationships call into question pwc's independence under the loan rule with respect to those funds, as well as all other funds in the invesco fund complex and the company and its subsidiaries. on june 20, 2016, the sec staff issued a no-action letter to another mutual fund complex (see fidelity management &amp; research company et al., no-action letter ) related to the audit independence issue described above. in that letter, the sec staff confirmed that it would not recommend enforcement action against an audit client that relied on audit services performed by an audit firm that was not in compliance with the loan rule in certain specified circumstances. the circumstances described in the no-action letter appear to be substantially similar to the circumstances that called into question pwc's independence under the loan rule with respect to the invesco funds complex, including the company. the company therefore believes that the invesco funds complex can rely on the letter to continue to issue financial statements that are audited by pwc and we intend to do so. the sec staff has indicated that the no-action relief will expire eighteen months from its issuance (i.e., on december 20, 2017). pwc has advised us that it is continuing to have discussions with the sec staff regarding permanent relief. if in the future the independence of pwc is called into question under the loan rule by circumstances that are not addressed in the sec staff's no-action letter or permanent relief regarding this matter is not granted by the sec, the company will need to take other action and incur additional costs in order for the company's filings with the sec containing financial statements to be deemed compliant with applicable securities laws. such action may include obtaining the review and audit of the financial statements filed by the company by another independent registered public accounting firm. in addition, under such circumstances, the company's eligibility to issue securities under its existing registration statements on form s-3 and forms s-8 may be impacted and certain financial reporting covenants with our lenders may be impacted. there could be other burdensome requirements or impacts on other entities (including registered funds) included in the invesco funds complex. such consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. insurance may not be available at a reasonable cost to protect us from liability. we face the inherent risk of liability related to claims from clients, third-party vendors or others, actions taken by regulatory agencies and costs and losses associated with cyber incidents. to help protect against these risks, we purchase insurance in amounts, and against potential liabilities, that we consider appropriate, where such insurance is available at prices we deem reasonable. there can be no assurance, however, that a claim or claims will be covered by insurance or, if covered, will not exceed coverage limits, or that an insurer will meet its obligations regarding coverage, or that coverage will continue to be available on a cost effective basis. insurance costs are impacted by market conditions and the risk profile of the insured, and may increase significantly over relatively short periods. in addition, certain insurance coverage may not be available or may only be available at prohibitive costs. renewals of insurance policies may expose us to additional costs through higher premiums or the assumption of higher deductibles or co-insurance liability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the company is primarily exposed to market risk in the form of aum market price risk, securities market risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk. aum market price risk the company's investment management revenues are comprised of fees based on the value of aum. declines in the market prices of equity and fixed income securities, commodities and derivatives, or other similar financial instruments held in client portfolios could cause revenues to decline because of lower investment management fees by: causing the value of aum to decrease. causing the returns realized on aum to decrease (impacting performance fees). causing clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments in markets that they perceive to offer greater opportunity and that the company does not serve. causing clients to rebalance assets away from investments that the company manages into investments that the company does not manage. causing clients to reallocate assets away from products that earn higher revenues into products that earn lower revenues. underperformance of client accounts relative to competing products could exacerbate these factors. assuming the revenue yield on aum for the year remains unchanged, a 10% decline in the average aum for the year would result in a corresponding decline in revenue. certain expenses, including distribution and compensation expenses, may not vary in proportion with the changes in the market value of aum. as such, the impact on operating margin or net income of a decline in the market values of aum may be greater or less than the percentage decline in the market value of aum. securities market risk the company's exposure to market risk from financial instruments measured at fair value arises from its investments and also from its contingent consideration liability. the following table summarizes the impact of a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values or the market inputs contributing to the fair value of these financial instruments: december 31, 2016 $ in millions fair value fair value assuming 10% increase fair value assuming 10% decrease available-for-sale investments (a) 154.0 169.4 138.6 trading investments (b) 329.6 362.6 296.6 total assets measured at fair value exposed to market risk 483.6 532.0 435.2 direct investments in cip (c) 498.1 547.9 448.3 contingent consideration liability (d) (78.2 ) (86.0 ) (70.4 ) ____________ a. any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale investments are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, until the investment is sold or otherwise disposed of, or if the investment is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in income. the company evaluates the carrying value of investments for impairment on a quarterly basis. in its impairment analysis, the company takes into consideration numerous criteria, including the duration and extent of any decline in fair value, and the intent and ability of the company to hold the security for a period of time sufficient for a recovery in value. if the decline in value is determined to be other-than-temporary, the carrying value of the security is generally written down to fair value through the consolidated statement of income. if such a 10% decrease in fair values were to occur, it would not result in an other-than-temporary impairment charge that would be material to our pre-tax earnings. 73 table of contents b. if such a 10% increase or decrease in fair values were to occur, the change attributable to $329.6 million of these trading investments would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings. at december 31, 2016 , $170.5 million of these trading investments are held to hedge economically certain deferred compensation plans in which the company participates. the company recognizes as compensation expense the appreciation or depreciation of the compensation liability over the award's vesting period in proportion to the vested amount of the award. the company immediately recognizes the appreciation or depreciation of these investments, which is included in other gains and losses. this creates a timing difference between the recognition of the compensation expense and the investment gain or loss impacting net income, which will reverse and will offset to zero over the life of the award at the end of the multi-year vesting period. c. these represent invesco's direct investments in investment products that are consolidated. upon consolidation, these direct investments are eliminated, and the assets and liabilities of the cip are consolidated in the consolidated balance sheet, together with a noncontrolling interest balance representing the portion of the cip owned by third parties. if a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values of invesco's direct investments in cip were to occur, it would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our net income attributable to invesco ltd. d. during 2015, the company acquired investment management contracts from deutsche bank. this liability represents the purchase price, which was comprised solely of contingent consideration payable in future periods and is linked to future revenues generated from the contracts. the contingent consideration liability was recorded at fair value at the acquisition date and subsequent changes in the fair value are recorded in other gains and losses, net in the consolidated statements of income. if a 10% increase or decrease in the fair value of the contingent consideration liability were to occur, it would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our net income attributable to invesco ltd. cash balances invested in money market funds of $476.2 million have been excluded from the table above. these are valued under the market approach at the net asset value of the underlying funds, which is maintained at $1. assets held for policyholders of $8,224.2 million have also been excluded from the table above. the entity holds assets that are managed for its clients on its balance sheet with an equal and offsetting liability to the policyholders, which is linked to the value of the investments. the investments and the policyholder payables held by this business are carried in the consolidated balance sheets as separate account assets and liabilities at fair value in accordance with asc topic 944, financial services - insurance. changes in fair value are recorded and offset to zero in the consolidated statements of income in other operating revenues. increases or decreases in the fair value of these investments will therefore have no impact to our pre-tax earnings. interest rate risk interest rate risk relates to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its external debt and cash and cash equivalent investments. on december 31, 2016 , the interest rates on 100.0% of the company's borrowings were fixed for a weighted average period of 11.0 years. borrowings under the credit facility will have floating interest rates. the interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the company on december 31 was: $ in millions december 31, 2016 december 31, 2015 long-term debt fixed rate 2,073.7 2,072.8 floating rate 28.7 total 2,102.4 2,072.8 weighted average interest rate percentage 4.0 % 4.0 % weighted average period for which rate is fixed in years 11.0 12.0 see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 8 , debt for additional disclosures relating to the u.s. dollar floating and fixed rate obligations. the company's fixed interest financial assets at december 31, 2016 , include foreign time deposit investments of $26.9 million ( 2015 : $24.7 million ). the weighted average interest rate on these investments is 0.30% ( 2015 : 0.39% ) and the weighted average time for which the rate is fixed is 0.2 years ( 2015 : 0.2 years). 74 table of contents foreign exchange rate risk the company has transactional currency exposures that occur when any of the company's subsidiaries receive or pay cash in a currency different from its functional currency. such exposure arises from sales or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. these exposures are not actively managed. the company also has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets and results of operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risk when translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation into invesco ltd. a strengthening u.s. dollar has a negative impact on the company's foreign currency denominated earnings when presented in u.s. dollars. the company's most significant foreign exchange rate risk exposure relates to the translation of pound sterling-denominated transactions into the u.s. dollar reporting currency. item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 17 , "geographic information," contains disclosure of revenue from external customers by geography. the disclosure of revenues from external customers earned in the u.k. is an indicator of the company's exposure to the pound sterling; however, expenses incurred in the u.k. provide a natural offset to the company's exposure to the pound sterling. a 10% decline in the annual average pound sterling exchange rate from the current rate will result in an approximate 7 cent decline (unhedged) in annual earnings per share and an erosion of 30 basis points of operating margin. a 10% decline in the annual average euro exchange rate from the current rate will result in an approximate 3 cent decline (unhedged) in annual earnings per share and an erosion of 10 basis points of operating margin. given this exposure, in 2016 the company continued to hedge this risk through out-of-the money put option contracts to hedge economically the foreign currency risk on the translation of its pound sterling-denominated earnings into u.s. dollars and starting in the third quarter the euro-denominated earnings into u.s. dollars though the end of 2017. these programs may serve to reduce, but not fully eliminate the impact of pound sterling and euro foreign currency risk and the impact on our consolidated income statements. a strike level is set at $1.4355 for the pound sterling/u.s. dollar contracts covering january 2017 through march 2017 and $1.2496 for the period april 2017 through december 2017. the euro/u.s. dollar contracts have a strike price set at $1.0719. at december 31, 2016, the fair value of the company's open put option contracts was $21.8 million . other than the fair value of the put option contracts, there is no additional loss exposure to the company, only the potential for a gain should the average exchange rates fall below the strike levels during the hedged periods. at december 31, 2016, a 10% decline in the annual average pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rate would result in a positive cash flow from the pound sterling/u.s. dollar contracts of $32.3 million. a 10% decline in the annual average euro to u.s. dollar exchange rate would result in a positive cash flow from the euro/u.s. dollar contracts of $26.6 million. the company is exposed to foreign exchange revaluation into the consolidated statements of income on monetary assets and liabilities that are held by subsidiaries in different functional currencies than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. net foreign exchange revaluation losses were $5.3 million in 2016 ( 2015 : $1.7 million of losses), and are included in general and administrative expenses and other gains and losses, net on the consolidated statements of income. we continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange revaluation and have put in place net investment hedge structures discussed in part ii, item 8, financial statements, note 10--"other comprehensive income/(loss)." 75 table of contents supplementary quarterly financial data the following is selected unaudited consolidated data for invesco ltd. for the quarters indicated: 2016 2015 $ in millions, except per share data q4 q3 q2 q1 q4 q3 q2 q1 operating revenues: investment management fees 946.9 965.9 946.7 913.6 987.1 1,016.9 1,055.7 1,001.4 service and distribution fees 209.1 213.4 203.4 197.7 207.6 214.8 219.6 213.4 performance fees 17.5 3.4 8.9 14.5 16.8 15.6 6.7 46.8 other 21.2 18.9 30.4 22.9 28.2 26.2 36.1 30.0 total operating revenues 1,194.7 1,201.6 1,189.4 1,148.7 1,239.7 1,273.5 1,318.1 1,291.6 operating expenses: third-party distribution, service and advisory 349.5 362.1 348.4 347.2 375.2 392.3 413.3 399.1 employee compensation 339.0 345.1 350.3 344.4 349.8 337.6 347.2 360.9 marketing 35.2 26.4 28.3 24.9 34.1 24.9 29.7 26.7 property, office and technology 85.3 78.2 82.3 79.9 81.3 79.0 74.8 76.9 general and administrative 91.5 83.5 78.6 77.9 95.7 87.0 89.1 89.9 total operating expenses 900.5 895.3 887.9 874.3 936.1 920.8 954.1 953.5 operating income 294.2 306.3 301.5 274.4 303.6 352.7 364.0 338.1 other income/(expense): equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 11.4 5.5 4.6 (12.2 ) 3.1 8.2 12.0 11.8 interest and dividend income 3.5 2.6 2.5 3.6 5.5 2.4 2.6 2.5 interest expense (23.5 ) (23.9 ) (22.1 ) (23.9 ) (23.0 ) (20.4 ) (19.6 ) (18.7 ) other gains and losses, net 15.6 16.2 (4.2 ) (4.7 ) 3.7 0.9 (8.8 ) 2.7 other income/(expense) of cip, net 9.8 39.0 37.9 (7.5 ) (12.0 ) 1.5 (1.9 ) 39.5 other income/(expense) of csip, net 0.8 (3.6 ) 5.1 9.4 income before income taxes 311.0 345.7 320.2 229.7 281.7 341.7 353.4 385.3 income tax provision (92.9 ) (89.8 ) (83.7 ) (71.9 ) (86.9 ) (100.4 ) (109.4 ) (101.3 ) net income 218.1 255.9 236.5 157.8 194.8 241.3 244.0 284.0 net (income)/loss attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities 8.4 (14.7 ) (11.0 ) 3.2 7.1 8.0 13.3 (24.4 ) net income attributable to invesco ltd. 226.5 241.2 225.5 161.0 201.9 249.3 257.3 259.6 earnings per share*: -basic $0.55 $0.58 $0.54 $0.38 $0.48 $0.58 $0.60 $0.60 -diluted $0.55 $0.58 $0.54 $0.38 $0.48 $0.58 $0.60 $0.60 average shares outstanding*: - basic 408.6 412.6 418.9 418.7 422.9 428.8 431.9 432.2 - diluted 409.0 412.9 419.1 418.9 423.2 429.1 432.2 432.5 dividends declared per share: $0.2800 $0.2800 $0.2800 $0.2700 $0.2700 $0.2700 $0.2700 $0.2500 ____________ * the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may differ from the annual earnings per share amounts due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in interim periods. 76 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively affect invesco's revenues, operations, financial condition and liquidity. in recent years, capital and credit markets have experienced substantial volatility. in this regard: in the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure or disruptions in the global financial system or failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in aum and severe liquidity or valuation problems in managed investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and ability to retain and attract key employees. additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. in addition to the impact of the market volatility on client portfolios, illiquidity and/or volatility of the global fixed income and/or equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows or to timely meet client redemption requests. in the u.s., regulations requiring a variable ( floating ) net asset value (nav) for institutional prime and tax-free money market funds became effective in october 2016. those same regulations also provide for the potential imposition of the assessment of fees in connection with redemptions and/or gates that postpone the time in which redemptions must be processed in the event those funds' weekly liquid assets fall below certain specified thresholds. our government money market funds and retail prime and tax-free money market funds continue to offer a stable nav of $1.00 per share and are not required to impose fees and gates; however, we do not guarantee such nav level. market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could lead to the imposition of fees or gates with respect to institutional prime and tax-free money market funds and an affect on the navs of government and retail prime and tax-free money market funds. if our institutional prime or tax-free money market funds were to impose redemption fees or gates delaying the payment of redemption proceeds, or the nav of one of our government or retail prime or tax-free money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in aum, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. more broadly, uncertainties regarding geopolitical developments can produce volatility in global financial markets. as an example, the u.k. electorate voted in june 2016 to exit the european union (brexit), which resulted in market volatility. although negotiations between the uk and eu regarding brexit began in june 2017, it is still uncertain what terms may be agreed to in the final outcome and for any transitional period and what impact those terms may have on global markets. this may impact the levels and composition of our aum and also negatively impact investor sentiment, which could result in reduced or negative flows. in addition, because the u.k. pound sterling is the functional currency for certain of our subsidiaries, any weakening of the u.k. pound sterling relative to the u.s. dollar could negatively impact our reported financial results. we may not adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in global financial markets. if we are unable to effect appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace, our profitability, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected by any reduction in aum as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. we derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of aum. aum may decline for various reasons. for any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin likely would decline by a greater proportion because a majority of our expenses remain fixed. factors that could decrease aum (and therefore revenues) include the following: declines in the market value of aum in client portfolios. these could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which our aum are concentrated. approximately 46% of our total aum were invested in the equity asset class and approximately 54% were invested in the fixed income asset class and other asset classes at december 31, 2017 . our aum as of january 31, 2018 were $972.6 billion . we cannot predict whether volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our aum are concentrated. any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin. 12 table of contents redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, client portfolios. these could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in client portfolios in general or in the market segments in which invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance (relative or absolute) of the client portfolios managed by invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales and increased redemptions with corresponding decreases in our revenues. failure of our client portfolios to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and other alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, stable return accounts, and certain etfs. our revenues may decline if clients continue to shift their investments to lower fee accounts. in addition, the loss of key personnel or significant investment management professionals could reduce the attractiveness of our products to current and potential clients and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. investments in international markets . investment products that we manage may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization and asset confiscation. international trading markets, particularly emerging markets and frontier markets, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the developed world. our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time. substantially all of our revenues are derived from investment management agreements. investment management agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days' notice. agreements with u.s. registered funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the event of an assignment (as defined in the investment company act of 1940, as amended), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund's board of trustees or directors, as required by law. in addition, the boards of trustees or directors of certain other fund accounts generally may terminate these investment management agreements upon written notice for any reason. open-end registered fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of aum, generally on short notice. any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or aum, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility. certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. these redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. in addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of fixed income investments and fixed income derivatives held in various investment portfolios and other products. thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from money market portfolios and from other fixed income products. if securities within a money market portfolio default or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its nav. although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining nav. some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. additionally, we have investments in fixed income assets, including collateralized loan obligations and seed money in fixed income funds, the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates. performance fees may increase revenue and earnings volatility. a portion of the company's revenues is derived from performance fees on investment advisory assignments. performance fees represented $113.3 million , or 2.2% , of total operating revenues for the year ended december 31, 2017 . in most cases, performance fees are based on relative or absolute investment returns, although in some cases they are based on achieving specific service standards. generally, the company is entitled to performance fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. if these targets are not exceeded, performance fees for that period will not be earned and, if targets are based on cumulative returns, the company may not earn performance fees in future periods. performance fees will vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns and the timing of revenue recognition, causing our earnings to be more volatile. 13 table of contents the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we, and the client portfolios that we manage, have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, clearing organizations, hedge funds and other institutions. many of these transactions expose us or such client portfolios to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty. while we regularly conduct assessments of such risk posed by counterparties, the risk of non-performance by such parties is subject to sudden swings in the financial and credit markets. our financial condition and liquidity would be adversely affected by losses on our seed capital and co-investments . the company has investments in managed investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including, but not limited to equities, fixed income products, commodities, derivatives, and similar financial instruments, private equity and real estate. investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks, or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed capital and co-investments. a reduction in the value of these investments may adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. as of december 31, 2017 , the company had $891.7 million in seed capital and co-investments, including direct investments in consolidated investment products (cip). we operate in an industry that is highly regulated in many countries, and any enforcement action or adverse changes in the laws or regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict our business activities, conduct examinations, risk assessments, investigations and capital adequacy reviews, and impose remedial programs to address perceived deficiencies. as a result of regulatory oversight, we could face requirements which negatively impact the way in which we conduct business, increase compliance costs and/or impose additional capital requirements. our regulators likewise have the authority to commence enforcement actions which could lead to sanctions up to and including the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel or the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities, or in private litigation against us, could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues. any of the effects discussed above could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. a substantial portion of the products and services we offer are regulated by the securities and exchange commission (sec), financial industry regulatory authority (finra), the commodities future trading commission (cftc), the national futures association (nfa) and the texas department of banking in the united states and by the financial conduct authority (fca) and the prudential regulatory authority (pra) in the united kingdom. subsidiaries operating in the european union (eu) are subject to various eu directives, which generally are implemented by member state national legislation and by eu regulations. our operations elsewhere in the world are regulated by similar regulatory organizations. the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen a significant increase in regulation in recent years. various changes in laws and regulations have been enacted or otherwise implemented in multiple jurisdictions globally in response to the crisis in the financial markets that began in 2007. various other proposals remain under consideration by legislators, regulators, other government officials and other public policy commentators. certain enacted provisions and certain other proposals are potentially far reaching and, depending upon their implementation, could have a material impact on our business. while certain of these provisions appear to address perceived problems in the banking sector, some will or may be applied more broadly and affect other financial services companies, including investment managers. while invesco does not believe that the these post-crisis developments have or will fundamentally change the investment management industry or cause invesco to reconsider its basic strategy, certain provisions have required, and other provisions will or may require, us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also have increased regulatory burdens and related compliance costs, and will or may continue to do so. more broadly, we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. to the extent that existing regulations are interpreted or amended or future regulations are adopted in a manner that reduces the sale, or increases the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affects the investment performance of our products or impacts our product mix, our aggregate aum and our revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, regulatory changes have imposed and may continue to impose additional costs or capital requirements, which could negatively impact our profitability or return on equity. 14 table of contents in december 2014, then sec chair mary jo white announced a comprehensive agenda for regulatory change governing the u.s. asset management industry and directed sec staff to develop a five-part series of new regulations addressing the topics of enhanced portfolio reporting, liquidity risk management, leverage and use of derivatives, adviser wind up and stress testing for funds and advisers. rules proposed in 2015 for the first two of these initiatives became final in october 2016. the sec has also proposed a rule that would impose restrictions on the use of derivatives by registered funds. these new industry rules would or could be expected to add additional reporting and compliance costs and may affect the development of new products and the ability to continue to offer certain strategies through a registered investment company format. in late 2017 the sec announced an updated regulatory agenda which deferred, de-prioritized or removed certain of these items. the practical impact of such changes remains uncertain as of the date of this report. the eu has promulgated or is considering various new or revised directives pertaining to financial services, including investment managers. such directives are progressing at various stages, and generally have been, are being or will or would be implemented by national legislation in member states. ongoing changes in the eu's regulatory framework applicable to our business, including changes related to brexit and any other changes in the composition of the eu's member states, may add further complexity to our global risks and operations. developments under regulatory changes will or may include, without limitation: expanded regulation over investment management firms. new or increased capital requirements and related regulation. change to the regulation of money market funds in the eu requiring capital buffers. limitations on holdings of certain commodities under proposed regulations of the cftc which could result in capacity constraints for our products that employ commodities as part of their investment strategy. the u.s. department of labor adopted regulations in april 2016 that treat as fiduciaries any person who provides investment advice or recommendations to employee benefit plans, plan fiduciaries, plan participants, plan beneficiaries, individual retirement accounts (iras) or ira owners. the regulations have wide-ranging consequences for invesco and our u.s. distribution partners and product line. under the new rules, firms and individuals who recommend financial products to retirement investors are be required to act in the best interest of the investor and, to receive variable compensation, would be required to enter into a contract with clients and produce complex disclosure documents intended to highlight financial conflicts of interest that may arise from the compensation the financial adviser receives from firms like invesco. these rules went into partial effect in june 2017, but the implementation of the enforcement mechanism has been delayed until july 2019. the sec is reviewing whether it might promulgate its own version of a fiduciary rule, possibly in conjunction with a re-proposed version of these dol rules. rules promulgated by the sec in this area could have wider impact than such dol rules. other changes to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products. in the u.s., the sec previously has proposed and may repropose significant changes to rule 12b-1, and may propose other regulatory changes impacting distribution of investment funds. invesco believes these proposals could increase operational and compliance costs. the eu has implemented the alternative investment fund manager directive (aifmd); implementing legislation in member states has, among other elements, imposed restrictions on the marketing and sale within the eu of private equity and other alternative investment funds sponsored by non-eu managers. various regulators promulgated or are considering other new disclosure or suitability requirements pertaining to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products, including enhanced standards and requirements pertaining to disclosures made to retail investors at the point of sale. in 2015, the fca undertook a study of the asset management industry and released their final report in june 2017. the report highlighted a number of specific industry issues and proposed a number of remedies that will take place in a number of stages, including: changes to governance, changes to fee structures to provide clients with increased transparency, improved disclosure in client documentation, improved ability for retail clients to change share classes and changes to pension pooling and investment consultant regulations in the institutional segment. the markets in financial instruments directive ii (mifid ii) in the eu, effective in january 2018, seeks to promote a single market for wholesale and retail transactions in financial instruments. mifid ii addresses the conduct of business rules for intermediaries providing investment services and the effective, efficient and safe operation of financial markets. key elements of mifid ii are the extent to which retrocessions may be paid and the use of trading commissions to fund research. the company has announced that, beginning in january 2018, external research costs incurred for mifid ii impacting funds and client accounts in europe have been absorbed by the company. we do not expect these costs to be material to the company's financial statements. while the foregoing provisions only impact the eu, client-driven competitive pressures may cause an expansion of these principles to other business regions in which we operate. an increased focus on liquidity in funds (including fixed income funds), an example of which is the sec's rules with respect to liquidity and liquidity risk management applicable to certain types of registered u.s. funds that are scheduled to take effect in 2018. 15 table of contents increased requirements to provide regulators and investors more granular detail regarding our products and services, including the sec's reporting modernization rule applicable to certain types of registered u.s. funds that are scheduled to take effect in 2018. regulations pertaining to the privacy of data with respect to clients, employees and business partners. in particular, effective may 25, 2018, the eu's general data protection regulation (gdpr) will strengthen data protection rules for individuals within the eu and the export of data outside of the eu. compliance with gdpr will require an extensive review of our global data processing systems. a failure to comply with gdpr could result in fines up to 20 million euros or 4% of our annual revenues, whichever is higher. increased regulatory scrutiny on operations of private equity funds. requirements pertaining to the trading of securities and other financial instruments, such as swaps and other derivatives, including certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and european market infrastructure regulation; these include significant reporting requirements, designated trading venues, mandated central clearing arrangements, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain financial institutions, other conduct requirements and potentially new taxes or similar fees. heightened regulatory examinations and inspections, including enforcement reviews, and a more aggressive posture regarding commencing enforcement proceedings resulting in fines, penalties and additional remedial activities to firms and to individuals. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, regulators in the united states and the united kingdom have taken and can be expected to continue to take a more aggressive posture on bringing enforcement proceedings. enhanced licensing and qualification requirements for key personnel. guidelines regarding the structure and components of fund manager compensation and other additional rules and regulations and disclosure requirements. certain provisions impose additional disclosure burdens on public companies. certain proposals could impose requirements for more widespread disclosures of compensation to highly-paid individuals. depending upon the scope of any such requirements, invesco could be disadvantaged in retaining key employees vis- -vis private companies, including hedge fund sponsors. strengthening standards regarding various ethical matters, including compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and anti-money-laundering laws and regulations. regulations promulgated to address perceptions that the asset management industry, or certain of its entities or activities, pose systematic risks to the financial system. regulations promulgated to protect personal data and address risks of fraud, malfeasance or other adverse consequences stemming from cyber attacks. other changes impacting the identity or the organizational structure of regulators with supervisory authority over invesco. we cannot at this time predict the full impact of potential legal and regulatory changes or possible enforcement proceedings on our business. such changes have imposed, and may continue to impose, new compliance costs and/or capital requirements or impact invesco in other ways that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. moreover, certain legal or regulatory changes could require us to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur other new constraints or costs, including the investment of significant management time and resources in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. in recent years, certain regulatory developments have also added downward pressures regarding fee levels. to the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of our products and services or our investment strategies cause or contribute to reduced sales or increased redemptions of our products, impair the investment performance of our products or impact our product mix, our aum and results of operations might be adversely affected. distribution of earnings of our subsidiaries may be subject to limitations, including net capital requirements. substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, intercompany loans or other payments by our subsidiaries to us. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries ' earnings and business considerations. for example, certain of our subsidiaries are required under applicable laws and regulations to maintain appropriate levels of capital. such requirements may change from time-to-time as additional guidance is released based on a variety of factors, including balance sheet composition, assessment of risk exposures and governance and review from regulators. these and other similar provisions of applicable laws and regulations may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. all of our regulated eu subsidiaries are subject to consolidated capital requirements under eu directives, including those arising from the eu's capital requirements directive and the u.k.'s internal capital adequacy assessment process (icaap), and capital is maintained within this sub-group to satisfy these regulations. we meet these requirements in part by holding cash and cash 16 table of contents equivalents. this retained cash can be used for general business purposes in the european sub-group in the countries where it is located. due to the capital restrictions, the ability to transfer cash between certain jurisdictions may be limited. in addition, transfers of cash between international jurisdictions may have adverse tax consequences. as of december 31, 2017 , the company's minimum regulatory capital requirement was $761.4 million . complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the european sub-group. as a result of corporate restructuring and regulatory requirements, certain of these eu subsidiaries may be required to limit their dividends to the ultimate parent company, invesco ltd. our financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute funds to us. civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions could adversely affect our aum and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business. invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings, including civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions. these actions can arise from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory reviews. further, as a global company with investment products registered in numerous countries and subject to the jurisdiction of one or more regulators in each country, at any given time, our business operations may be subject to review, investigation or disciplinary action. for example, in the united states, united kingdom and other jurisdictions in which the company operates, governmental authorities regularly make inquiries, hold investigations and administer market conduct examinations with respect to the company's compliance with applicable laws and regulations. lawsuits or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of these inquiries may in the future be filed against the company and related entities and individuals in the united states, united kingdom and other jurisdictions in which the company and its affiliates operate. see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 18 -- "commitments and contingencies, for additional information. judgments in civil litigation or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. we are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states. we have offices in numerous countries and sponsor many cross border and local proprietary funds that are domiciled outside the united states and may face difficulties in managing, operating and marketing our international operations. our international operations expose us to the political and economic consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions and subject us to expropriation risks, expatriation controls and potential adverse tax consequences. terrorist activity and the continued threat of terrorism, as well as increased geopolitical unrest could adversely affect the global economy or specific international, regional and domestic markets, which may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. terrorist activity and the continued threat of terrorism and acts of civil or international hostility, both within the united states and abroad, as well as ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and declines in the global markets, loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. continued geopolitical unrest and terrorist activity that adversely affect the global economy, capital markets or specific international, regional or domestic markets may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of key individuals or a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. retaining highly skilled technical and management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain our clients. the market for investment management professionals is competitive and has become more so in periods of growth of the investment management industry. the market for investment professionals and other key personnel is at times characterized by the movement of these professionals among different firms. our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals and other key personnel with a supportive professional working environment and compensation and benefits (including equity and other forms of deferred compensation) that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. however, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of significant investment professionals or other key personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. 17 table of contents if our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income. our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and our good reputation is critical to our business. our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries, investigations or findings of wrongdoing, intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications, operational failures (including cyber breaches), employee dishonesty or other misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or eventually satisfactorily addressed. our business also requires us continuously to manage actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of other clients or those of invesco. the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if we fail - or appear to fail - to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address and manage these risks, but this task can be complex and difficult, and if our procedures and controls fail, our reputation could be damaged. any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our aum, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. failure to establish adequate controls and risk management policies, the circumvention of controls and policies or fraud could have an adverse effect on our reputation and financial position. we have established a comprehensive risk management process and continue to enhance various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risks to our business; however, we cannot be assured that such controls, procedures, policies and systems will successfully identify and manage internal and external risks to our business. we are subject to the risk that our employees, contractors or other third parties may deliberately seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud (including through cyber breaches) or act in ways that are inconsistent with our controls, policies and procedures. persistent or repeated attempts involving conflicts of interests, circumvention of policies and controls or fraud could have a materially adverse impact on our reputation and could lead to costly regulatory inquiries. failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines could result in damage awards against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. many of the investment management agreements under which we manage assets or provide products or services specify investment guidelines or requirements that we are required to observe in the provision of our services. laws and regulations impose similar requirements for certain client portfolios (such as registered funds). a failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts. regulators likewise may commence enforcement actions for violations of such requirements. any such effects could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. we maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to prevent, detect and correct such errors. when an error is detected, a payment will typically be made into the applicable client account to correct it. significant errors for which we are responsible could impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. the failure or negative performance of products offered by competitors may have a negative impact on similar invesco products irrespective of our performance. many competitors offer similar products to those offered by us and the failure or negative performance of competitors' products could lead to a loss of confidence in similar invesco products, irrespective of the performance of such products. any loss of confidence in a product type could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 18 table of contents competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, increase commissions paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries or could limit or reduce sales of our products, all of which could reduce our profitability. the investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and financial intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. we continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products. investors remain attracted to lower fee passive products, which have gained and may continue to gain share at the expense of active products. we face strong competition in every market in which we operate. our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. our competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. if these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various distribution channels around the world have also resulted in increased competition. in recent years there have been several instances of industry consolidation, both in the area of distributors and manufacturers of investment products. further consolidation may occur in these areas in the future. the increasing size and market influence of certain distributors of our products and of certain direct competitors may have a negative impact on our ability to compete at the same levels of profitability in the future, should we find ourselves unable to maintain relevance in the markets in which we compete. we may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. we regularly review, and from time-to-time have discussions with and engage in, potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to pursue such transactions, be successful in negotiating the required agreements, or successfully close transactions after signing such agreements. acquisitions also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if pending transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to closing or integration. following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. there can be no assurance that such sellers will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. we may be unable to develop new products and services and the development of new products and services may expose us to additional costs or operational risk. our financial performance depends, in part, on the company's ability to develop, market and manage new investment products and services. the development and introduction of new products and services requires continued innovative efforts on our part and may require significant time and resources as well as ongoing support and investment. substantial risk and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including the implementation of new and appropriate operational controls and procedures, shifting client and market preferences, the introduction of competing products or services and compliance with regulatory requirements. new products often must be in the market place for three or more years in order to generate track records required to attract significant aum inflows. a failure to continue to innovate to introduce successful new products and services or to manage effectively the risks associated with such products and services may impact our market share relevance and may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. 19 table of contents our ability to maintain our credit ratings and to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors. our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. we have received credit ratings of a2/stable, a/negative and a-/stable from moody's investor services ("moody's"), standard &amp; poor's ratings service ("s&amp;p"), and fitch ratings ("fitch"), respectively, as of the date hereof. we believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to the fact that our revenues are exposed to equity market volatility and the potential impact from regulatory changes to the industry. additionally, the rating agencies could decide to downgrade the entire investment management industry, based on their perspective of future growth and solvency. material deterioration of these factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit ratings, thereby limiting our ability to generate additional financing. management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings. our credit facility borrowing rates are tied to our credit ratings. a reduction in our long-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, could limit our access to the capital markets and may result in outflows thereby reducing aum and revenues. volatility in global finance markets may also affect our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so. if we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. as of december 31, 2017 , we had outstanding total debt of $2,075.8 million , excluding debt of cip, and total equity attributable to invesco ltd. of $8,696.1 million . the amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. the company expects approximately 80% of the $1.2 billion purchase price for the upcoming guggenheim investments' etf acquisition will be funded through the use of the company's existing credit facility, increasing our outstanding debt in 2018. the company plans to repay the amount borrowed over the course of 2018. our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient assets or liquidity to repay such amounts in full. our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios. the credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. the breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or due to a significant and prolonged market-driven decline in our operating results) would result in a default under the credit facility. in the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if any indebtedness under the credit facility were subject to accelerated repayment repayment and if we had at that time a significant amount of outstanding debt under the credit facility, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full. 20 table of contents changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our net revenues and hinder our growth. we sell substantially all of our retail investment products through a variety of third party financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, fund supermarkets, regional broker-dealers, insurance companies, banks and financial planners in north america, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and supermarket platforms in europe and asia. no single one of these intermediaries is material to our business. increasing competition for these distribution channels could nevertheless cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. following the financial crisis, there has been consolidation of banks and broker-dealers, particularly in the u.s., and a limited amount of migration of brokers and financial advisors away from major banks to independent firms focused largely on providing advice. if these changes continue, our distribution costs could increase as a percentage of our revenues generated. additionally, particularly outside of the u.s., certain of the third party intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. investors, particularly in the institutional market, rely on external consultants and other third parties for advice on the choice of investment manager. these consultants and third parties tend to exert a significant degree of influence over their clients' choices, and they may favor a competitor of invesco as better meeting their particular clients' needs. there is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. similarly, particularly in the united states, certain distributors have substantially reduced the number of investment funds they make available to their customers. if a material portion of our distributors were to cease operations or substantially narrow their product offerings, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources and the consultant community would impair our ability to sell our products, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. our business is vulnerable to deficiencies and failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to breaches and errors or reputational harm, resulting in loss of customers or claims against us or our subsidiaries. in addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, marketing, shareholder servicing and trust, custody and other fiduciary services. in order to be competitive and comply with our agreements, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations and required distributions to fund shareholders. the ability to consistently and reliably obtain accurate securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and clients in accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. certain types of securities may experience liquidity constraints that would require increased use of fair value pricing, which is dependent on certain subjective judgments that have the potential to be challenged. any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports or other breaches and errors and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate customers and potentially give rise to claims against us. our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party service providers. certain of these processes involve a degree of manual input, and thus problems could occur from time-to-time due to human error. our failure to properly perform and monitor our operations or our otherwise suffering deficiencies and failures in these systems or service functions could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. the failure of one of our third party service providers or other key vendors to fulfill its obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or business, which may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. we depend on third party service providers and other key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody, risk analytics, market data, market indices and transfer agent roles, and other distribution and operational needs. if our third party service providers or other key vendors fail to fulfill their obligations to us, it could lead to operational and regulatory problems, including with respect to certain of our products, which could result in losses, enforcement actions, or reputational harm and may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. we depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems or facilities, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could result in significant limits on our ability to conduct our operations and activities, costs and reputational damage. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we are also dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security infrastructure, policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. we use our technology to, among other things, manage and trade 21 table of contents portfolio investments, support our other operations, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, protect the privacy of clients', employees' and business partners' data and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. any inaccuracies, delays, systems failures or security breaches in these and other processes could disrupt our business operations, subject us to client, employee or business partner dissatisfaction and losses and/or subject us to reputational harm. our computer, communications, data processing, networks, backup, business continuity or other operating, information or technology systems and facilities, including those that we outsource to other providers, may fail to operate properly or become disabled, overloaded or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. in recent years, several financial services firms suffered successful cyber-attacks launched both domestically and from abroad, resulting in the disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of confidential data and reputational harm. our status as a global financial institution and the nature of our client base may enhance the risk that we are targeted by such cyber-threats. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, and continually monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an external hacker attack by one or more cyber criminals or an authorized employee or vendor causing us to release confidential information inadvertently or through malfeasance, or lose temporarily or permanently data or applications or systems, which could materially harm our operations and reputation. the third parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries and technology infrastructure and service providers, are also susceptible to the foregoing risks (including regarding the third parties with which they are similarly interconnected or on which they otherwise rely), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom we or they are interconnected or conduct business. breach of our technology systems could damage our reputation and could result in the unauthorized disclosure or modification or loss of sensitive or confidential information (including client data); unauthorized disclosure modification or loss of proprietary information relating to our business; inability to process client or company transactions and processes; breach and termination of client contracts; liability for stolen assets, information or identity; remediation costs to repair damage caused by the breach, including damage to systems and recovery of lost data; additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents; regulatory actions (including fines and penalties, which could be material) and litigation costs resulting from the incident. such consequences could result in material financial loss and have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. if we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we believe our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems should mitigate adverse impacts. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational problems with regard to particular areas of our operations. further, as we strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. although we seek to assess regularly and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the united states and have functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. the largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our aum, is presently denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the united states whose functional currencies are not the u.s. dollar. as a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. consequently, significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the u.k. pound sterling, euro, or canadian dollar, among other currencies, could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results. 22 table of contents the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we have goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to annual impairment reviews. we also have definite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to impairment testing if indicators of impairment are identified. goodwill and intangible assets totaled $6,590.7 million and $1,558.7 million , respectively, at december 31, 2017 . we may not realize the value of such assets. we perform impairment reviews of the book values of these assets on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. a variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related assets would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting policies - goodwill and - intangibles, for additional details of our impairment analysis process. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. there is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation. on october 21, 2016, the united states treasury and the irs published final and temporary regulations under section 385 of the internal revenue code ("385 regulations") that target the inbound financing of a foreign-parented multinational group's u.s. subsidiaries. there are no immediate impacts to the company's financial position as a result of the application of the 385 regulations, in particular, as there are broad exceptions for intercompany loans that are short-term in form and substance (cash pooling, short term advances, short-term ordinary course of business payables, etc.). on a go forward basis, the 385 regulations could limit our ability to efficiently finance or otherwise choose between debt and equity transactions with our u.s. subsidiaries. the international tax environment continues to change as a result of both coordinated actions by governments and unilateral measures designed by individual countries, both intended to tackle concerns over base erosion and profit shifting (beps) and perceived international tax avoidance techniques. the recommendations of the beps project led by the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) are involved in much of the coordinated activity. as with any global implementation process there are concerns about potential lack of consistency in the local application of these items. some of the recommendations are complex while others contain optional routes, thereby increasing the likelihood of only partial or limited implementation. although the timing and methods of implementation vary, several jurisdictions have enacted legislation that is aligned with, and in some cases exceeds the scope of, the oecd's recommendations. this could lead to increased uncertainty with tax positions as well as increase the potential for double taxation. we continually assess the impact of various u.s. federal, state and foreign legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, which could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal, state or foreign taxes. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our future results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. the tax cuts and jobs act (the 2017 tax act) enacted on december 22, 2017, significantly reformed the taxation of business entities. the new legislation, among other things, includes changes to u.s. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a worldwide system of taxation to a territorial system. we continue to examine the impact of this new legislation and the ultimate outcome of the new legislation on our business and financial condition. see also item 8, financial statements and supplementary data - in note 15, "taxation," for further details and additional discussion on estimated amounts recorded as of december 31, 2017 for the 2017 tax act. 23 table of contents examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes (and, in certain cases, interest, fines or penalties). we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. the european commission ("ec") continues to investigate certain transfer pricing rulings given by member states to particular taxpayers that it believes may have violated the eu restriction on state aid. the investigation was triggered by the oecd / beps action plan as well as the eu's own agenda to tackle aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance. there is considerable uncertainty with the approach being taken, including retroactive application (10 year period), conflicts with oecd transfer pricing guidelines and implications to bilateral tax treaties. while the company does not believe it has received state aid and is not a party to any investigation, due to the uncertainty of the process and retroactive nature of the assessments any potential future findings could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our future results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to shareholders. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a company incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda (companies act). the companies act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. under bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances described in the following paragraph. however, directors and officers may owe duties to a company's creditors in cases of impending insolvency. directors and officers of a bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. if a director or officer of a bermuda company is found to have breached such director's duties to that company, the director may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of bermuda. however, the bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow english case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in a company's name against the directors and officers to remedy a wrong done to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the company's corporate power or is illegal or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of shareholders than actually approved it. under our second amended and restated bye-laws (bye-laws), each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against the company or any of our officers, directors or employees. the waiver applies to any action taken by a director, officer or employee, or the failure of such person to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the director, officer or employee. this waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our directors, officers and employees unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. our bye-laws also provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his or her own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the companies act. 24 table of contents because we are incorporated in bermuda, it may be difficult for shareholders to serve process or enforce judgments against us or our directors and officers. the company is organized under the laws of bermuda. in addition, certain of our officers and directors reside in countries outside the united states. a substantial portion of the company's assets and the assets of these officers and directors are or may be located outside the united states. investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the united states on our directors and officers who reside outside the united states or recovering against the company or these directors and officers on judgments of u.s. courts based on civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws, even though the company has appointed an agent in the united states to receive service of process. further, it may not be possible in bermuda or in countries other than the united states where the company has assets to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against the company based on the civil liability provisions of u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against the company or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or would hear actions against the company or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised by our legal advisors in bermuda that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. some remedies available under the laws of the united states or the states therein, including some remedies available under the u.s. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in bermuda courts because they may be found to be contrary to bermuda public policy. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the united states based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in other countries other than the united states. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or to obtain majority representation on our board of directors without the consent of our board. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares under such circumstances. specifically, our bye-laws contain the following provisions that may impede or delay an unsolicited takeover of the company: we are prohibited from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination (as defined in our bye-laws) with any interested shareholder (as defined in our bye-laws) for three years following the date that the shareholder became an interested shareholder; our board of directors, without further shareholder action, is permitted by our bye-laws to issue preference shares, in one or more series, and determine by resolution any designations, preferences, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions, or special or relative rights of an additional series. the rights of preferred shareholders may supersede the rights of common shareholders; shareholders may only remove directors for cause (defined in our bye-laws to mean willful misconduct or gross negligence which is materially injurious to the company, fraud or embezzlement, or a conviction of, or a plea of guilty or no contest to, a felony); our board of directors is authorized to expand its size and fill vacancies; and shareholders cannot act by written consent unless the consent is unanimous. our independent registered public accounting firm has advised us that it identified an issue related to an independence requirement contained in the securities exchange act of 1934 regulations regarding auditor independence. in may 2016, pricewaterhousecoopers llp (pwc) advised the company that it had identified an issue related to its independence under rule 2-01(c)(1)(ii)(a) of regulation s-x (loan rule) with respect to certain of pwc's lenders who own certain invesco registered funds managed by certain of our wholly-owned investment adviser subsidiaries. the company and such funds are required to have their financial statements audited by a public accounting firm that qualifies as independent under various sec rules. as discussed below, the staff of the securities and exchange commission (sec staff) has issued a no-action letter to another mutual fund complex under substantially similar circumstances and subsequently issued a letter extending the relief provided by the such letter indefinitely. the loan rule prohibits accounting firms, such as pwc, from having certain financial relationships with their audit clients and affiliated entities. specifically, the loan rule provides, in relevant part, that an accounting firm is not independent if it receives a loan from a lender that is a record or beneficial owner of more than ten percent of the audit client's equity securities. for purposes of the loan rule, audit clients include all of the registered investment companies advised by affiliates of the company, as well as the company and its other subsidiaries (collectively, the invesco funds complex) for which pwc also serves as 25 table of contents independent auditor. pwc informed the company it has relationships with lenders who hold, as record owner, more than ten percent of the shares of certain funds within the invesco fund complex. these relationships call into question pwc's independence under the loan rule with respect to those funds, as well as all other funds in the invesco fund complex and the company and its subsidiaries. in june 2016, the sec staff issued a no-action letter to another mutual fund complex (see fidelity management &amp; research company et al., no-action letter ) related to the audit independence issue described above. in that letter, the sec staff confirmed that it would not recommend enforcement action against an audit client that relied on audit services performed by an audit firm that was not in compliance with the loan rule in certain specified circumstances. the circumstances described in the no-action letter are substantially similar to the circumstances that called into question pwc's independence under the loan rule with respect to the invesco funds complex, including the company. the company therefore believes that the invesco funds complex can rely on the letter to continue to issue financial statements that are audited by pwc and we intend to do so. in september 2017, the sec staff issued a letter extending the relief in the june 2016 no-action letter referenced above. the extension makes no changes to the circumstances in the original no-action letter and does not include a new expiration date, providing indefinite relief. if in the future the independence of pwc is called into question under the loan rule by circumstances that are not addressed in the sec staff's no-action letter, the company will need to take other action and incur additional costs in order for the company's filings with the sec containing financial statements to be deemed compliant with applicable securities laws. such action may include obtaining the review and audit of the financial statements filed by the company by another independent registered public accounting firm. in addition, under such circumstances, the company's eligibility to issue securities under its existing registration statements on form s-3 and forms s-8 may be impacted and certain financial reporting covenants with our lenders may be impacted. there could be other burdensome requirements or impacts on other entities (including registered funds) included in the invesco funds complex. such consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. insurance may not be available at a reasonable cost to protect us from liability. we face the inherent risk of liability related to claims from clients, third-party vendors or others, actions taken by regulatory agencies and costs and losses associated with cyber incidents. to help protect against these risks, we purchase insurance in amounts, and against potential liabilities, that we consider appropriate, where such insurance is available at prices we deem reasonable. there can be no assurance, however, that a claim or claims will be covered by insurance or, if covered, will not exceed coverage limits, or that an insurer will meet its obligations regarding coverage, or that coverage will continue to be available on a cost effective basis. insurance costs are impacted by market conditions and the risk profile of the insured, and may increase significantly over relatively short periods. in addition, certain insurance coverage may not be available or may only be available at prohibitive costs. renewals of insurance policies may expose us to additional costs through higher premiums or the assumption of higher deductibles or co-insurance liability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the company is primarily exposed to market risk in the form of aum market price risk, securities market risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk. aum market price risk the company's investment management revenues are comprised of fees based on the value of aum. declines in the market prices of equity and fixed income securities, commodities and derivatives, or other similar financial instruments held in client portfolios could cause revenues to decline because of lower investment management fees by: causing the value of aum to decrease. causing the returns realized on aum to decrease (impacting performance fees). causing clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments in markets that they perceive to offer greater opportunity and that the company does not serve. causing clients to rebalance assets away from investments that the company manages into investments that the company does not manage. causing clients to reallocate assets away from products that earn higher revenues into products that earn lower revenues. underperformance of client accounts relative to competing products could exacerbate these factors. assuming the revenue yield on aum for the year remains unchanged, a 10% decline in the average aum for the year would result in a corresponding decline in revenue. certain expenses, including distribution and compensation expenses, may not vary in proportion with the changes in the market value of aum. as such, the impact on operating margin or net income of a decline in the market values of aum may be greater or less than the percentage decline in the market value of aum. securities market risk the company's exposure to market risk from financial instruments measured at fair value arises from its investments and also from its contingent consideration liability. the following table summarizes the impact of a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values or the market inputs contributing to the fair value of these financial instruments: december 31, 2017 $ in millions fair value fair value assuming 10% increase fair value assuming 10% decrease available-for-sale investments (a) 85.2 93.7 76.7 trading investments (b) 277.3 305.0 249.6 total assets measured at fair value exposed to market risk 362.5 398.7 326.3 direct investments in cip (c) 500.5 550.6 450.5 contingent consideration liability (d) (57.4 ) (63.1 ) (51.7 ) ____________ a. accounting standards update 2016-01, "financial instruments - overall: recognition and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities" is effective for the company january 1, 2018 and requires that all changes in the fair value of equity investments, other than those accounted for as equity method investments, be recognized in earnings. as such, if a 10% increase or decrease in the fair value of available-for-sale equity investments were to occur, the change attributable to $69.3 million of available-for-sale investments would result in a corresponding increase or decrease to our pre-tax earnings. any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale debt securities are recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, until the debt security is sold or otherwise disposed of, or if the debt security is determined to be other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in equity is included in income. the company evaluates the carrying value of debt securities for impairment on a quarterly basis. in its impairment analysis, the company takes into consideration numerous criteria, including the duration and extent of any decline 75 table of contents in fair value, and the intent and ability of the company to hold the security for a period of time sufficient for a recovery in value. if the decline in value is determined to be other-than-temporary, the carrying value of the security is generally written down to fair value through the consolidated statement of income. if such a 10% decrease in fair values were to occur, it would not result in an other-than-temporary impairment charge that would be material to our pre-tax earnings. b. if such a 10% increase or decrease in fair values were to occur, the change attributable to $277.3 million of these trading investments would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings. at december 31, 2017 , $92.3 million of these trading investments are held to hedge economically certain deferred compensation plans in which the company participates. the company recognizes as compensation expense the appreciation or depreciation of the compensation liability over the award's vesting period in proportion to the vested amount of the award. the company immediately recognizes the appreciation or depreciation of these investments, which is included in other gains and losses. this creates a timing difference between the recognition of the compensation expense and the investment gain or loss impacting net income, which will reverse and will offset to zero over the life of the award at the end of the multi-year vesting period. c. these represent invesco's direct investments in investment products that are consolidated. upon consolidation, these direct investments are eliminated, and the assets and liabilities of the cip are consolidated in the consolidated balance sheet, together with a noncontrolling interest balance representing the portion of the cip owned by third parties. if a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values of invesco's direct investments in cip were to occur, it would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our net income attributable to invesco ltd. d. during 2015, the company acquired investment management contracts from deutsche bank. this liability represents the purchase price, which was comprised solely of contingent consideration payable in future periods and is linked to future revenues generated from the contracts. the contingent consideration liability was recorded at fair value at the acquisition date and subsequent changes in the fair value are recorded in other gains and losses, net in the consolidated statements of income. if a 10% increase or decrease in the fair value of the contingent consideration liability were to occur, it would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our net income attributable to invesco ltd. cash balances invested in money market funds of $875.5 million have been excluded from the table above. these are valued under the market approach at the net asset value of the underlying funds, which is maintained at $1. assets held for policyholders of $12,444.5 million have also been excluded from the table above. the entity holds assets that are managed for its clients on its balance sheet with an equal and offsetting liability to the policyholders, which is linked to the value of the investments. the investments and the policyholder payables held by this business are carried in the consolidated balance sheets as separate account assets and liabilities at fair value in accordance with asc topic 944, financial services - insurance. changes in fair value are recorded and offset to zero in the consolidated statements of income in other operating revenues. increases or decreases in the fair value of these investments will therefore have no impact to our pre-tax earnings. interest rate risk interest rate risk relates to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its external debt and cash and cash equivalent investments. on december 31, 2017 , the interest rates on 100.0% of the company's borrowings were fixed for a weighted average period of 9.9 years, and the company had a zero balance on its floating rate credit facility. the interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the company on december 31 was: $ in millions december 31, 2017 december 31, 2016 long-term debt fixed rate 2,075.8 2,073.7 floating rate 28.7 total 2,075.8 2,102.4 weighted average interest rate percentage 3.9 % 4.0 % weighted average period for which rate is fixed in years 9.9 11.0 see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 8 , long-term debt for additional disclosures relating to the u.s. dollar floating and fixed rate obligations. 76 table of contents the company's fixed interest financial assets at december 31, 2017 , include foreign time deposit investments of $28.6 million ( 2016 : $26.9 million ). the weighted average interest rate on these investments is 0.39% ( 2016 : 0.30% ) and the weighted average time for which the rate is fixed is 0.1 years ( 2016 : 0.2 years). foreign exchange rate risk the company has transactional currency exposures that occur when any of the company's subsidiaries receive or pay cash in a currency different from its functional currency. such exposure arises from sales or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. these exposures are not actively managed. the company also has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets and results of operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risk when translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation into invesco ltd. a strengthening u.s. dollar has a negative impact on the company's foreign currency denominated earnings when presented in u.s. dollars. the company's most significant foreign exchange rate risk exposure relates to the translation of pound sterling-denominated transactions into the u.s. dollar reporting currency. item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 17 , "geographic information," contains disclosure of revenue from external customers by geography. the disclosure of revenues from external customers earned in the u.k. is an indicator of the company's exposure to the pound sterling; however, expenses incurred in the u.k. provide a natural offset to the company's exposure to the pound sterling. given this exposure, in 2017 the company continued to hedge this risk through out-of-the money put option contracts to hedge economically the foreign currency risk on the translation of its euro-denominated earnings into u.s. dollars though the end of 2017 and during the second quarter extended its hedge of the pound sterling-denominated earnings into u.s. dollars through december 31, 2018. these programs may serve to reduce, but not fully eliminate the impact of pound sterling and euro foreign currency risk and the impact on our consolidated income statements. the pound sterling/u.s. dollar contracts have a strike price set at $1.2500 based on the average daily foreign exchange rates for the applicable time period. at december 31, 2017, the fair value of the company's open put option contracts was $0.8 million . other than the fair value of the put option contracts, there is no additional loss exposure to the company, only the potential for a gain should the average exchange rates fall below the strike levels during the hedged periods. at december 31, 2017, a 10% decline in the annual average pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rate would result in a positive cash flow from the pound sterling/u.s. dollar contracts of $6.1 million. the company is exposed to foreign exchange revaluation into the consolidated statements of income on monetary assets and liabilities that are held by subsidiaries in different functional currencies than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. net foreign exchange revaluation gains were $15.7 million in 2017 ( 2016 : $5.3 million of losses), and are included in general and administrative expenses and other gains and losses, net on the consolidated statements of income. we continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange revaluation and have put in place net investment hedge structures discussed in part ii, item 8, financial statements, note 10 --"other comprehensive income/(loss)." 77 table of contents supplementary quarterly financial data the following is selected unaudited consolidated data for invesco ltd. for the quarters indicated: 2017 2016 $ in millions, except per share data q4 q3 q2 q1 q4 q3 q2 q1 operating revenues: investment management fees 1,098.7 1,062.3 1,010.4 955.2 946.9 965.9 946.7 913.6 service and distribution fees 217.5 217.6 211.3 206.4 209.1 213.4 203.4 197.7 performance fees 43.0 42.3 16.7 11.3 17.5 3.4 8.9 14.5 other 16.4 15.5 16.0 19.7 21.2 18.9 30.4 22.9 total operating revenues 1,375.6 1,337.7 1,254.4 1,192.6 1,194.7 1,201.6 1,189.4 1,148.7 operating expenses: third-party distribution, service and advisory 390.9 380.4 365.9 349.3 349.5 362.1 348.4 347.2 employee compensation 381.9 393.1 365.6 396.8 339.0 345.1 350.3 344.4 marketing 40.7 29.5 29.1 24.4 35.2 26.4 28.3 24.9 property, office and technology 102.8 92.8 89.0 85.5 85.3 78.2 82.3 79.9 general and administrative 115.0 86.6 85.9 78.0 91.5 83.5 78.6 77.9 total operating expenses 1,031.3 982.4 935.5 934.0 900.5 895.3 887.9 874.3 operating income 344.3 355.3 318.9 258.6 294.2 306.3 301.5 274.4 other income/(expense): equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 3.6 12.9 10.5 17.7 11.4 5.5 4.6 (12.2 ) interest and dividend income 6.4 2.5 1.6 2.9 3.5 2.6 2.5 3.6 interest expense (23.6 ) (23.6 ) (23.6 ) (24.0 ) (23.5 ) (23.9 ) (22.1 ) (23.9 ) other gains and losses, net 23.9 18.9 2.5 6.2 15.6 16.2 (4.2 ) (4.7 ) other income/(expense) of cip, net 44.8 31.7 32.3 28.5 9.8 39.0 37.9 (7.5 ) income before income taxes 399.4 397.7 342.2 289.9 311.0 345.7 320.2 229.7 income tax (provision)/benefits 23.2 (123.1 ) (92.6 ) (75.7 ) (92.9 ) (89.8 ) (83.7 ) (71.9 ) net income 422.6 274.6 249.6 214.2 218.1 255.9 236.5 157.8 net (income)/loss attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities (14.4 ) (7.1 ) (10.0 ) (2.2 ) 8.4 (14.7 ) (11.0 ) 3.2 net income attributable to invesco ltd. 408.2 267.5 239.6 212.0 226.5 241.2 225.5 161.0 earnings per share*: -basic $1.00 $0.65 $0.58 $0.52 $0.55 $0.58 $0.54 $0.38 -diluted $0.99 $0.65 $0.58 $0.52 $0.55 $0.58 $0.54 $0.38 average shares outstanding*: - basic 410.0 410.0 409.9 407.7 408.6 412.6 418.9 418.7 - diluted 410.6 410.5 410.3 408.0 409.0 412.9 419.1 418.9 dividends declared per share: $0.2900 $0.2900 $0.2900 $0.2800 $0.2800 $0.2800 $0.2800 $0.2700 ____________ * the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may differ from the annual earnings per share amounts due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in interim periods. 78 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively affect invesco's revenues, operations, financial condition and liquidity. in recent years, capital and credit markets have experienced substantial volatility. in this regard: in the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure or disruptions in the global financial system or failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in aum and severe liquidity or valuation problems in managed investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and ability to retain and attract key employees. additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. illiquidity and/or volatility of the global fixed income and/or equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows or to timely meet client redemption requests. uncertainties regarding geopolitical developments can produce volatility in global financial markets. as an example, the u.k. electorate voted in june 2016 to exit the european union (brexit), which resulted in market volatility. although negotiations between the uk and eu regarding brexit began in june 2017, it is still uncertain what terms may be agreed to in the final outcome and for any transitional period and what impact those terms may have on global markets. this may impact the levels and composition of our aum and also negatively impact investor sentiment, which could result in reduced or negative flows. in addition, because the u.k. pound sterling is the functional currency for certain of our subsidiaries, any weakening of the u.k. pound sterling relative to the u.s. dollar could negatively impact our reported financial results. changes to united states tax, tariff and import/export regulations may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. currently, there is significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the united states and other countries, including china, with respect to trade policies, treaties, taxes, government regulations and tariffs. it is unclear what changes may be considered or implemented and what the response will be to any such changes by other governments of such affected countries. these developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global trade and, in particular, trade between these nations and the united states. given our strong position in asia pacific, we could be more adversely affected than others by such market uncertainties. in the u.s., regulations requiring a variable ( floating ) net asset value (nav) for institutional prime and tax-free money market funds became effective in october 2016. those same regulations also provide for the potential imposition of the assessment of fees in connection with redemptions and/or gates that postpone the time in which redemptions must be processed in the event those funds' weekly liquid assets fall below certain specified thresholds. our government money market funds and retail prime and tax-free money market funds continue to offer a stable nav of $1.00 per share and are not required to impose fees and gates; however, we do not guarantee such nav level. market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could lead to the imposition of fees or gates with respect to institutional prime and tax-free money market funds and an effect on the navs of government and retail prime and tax-free money market funds. if our institutional prime or tax-free money market funds were to impose redemption fees or gates delaying the payment of redemption proceeds, or the nav of one of our government or retail prime or tax-free money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in aum, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected by any reduction in aum as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. we derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of aum. aum may decline for various reasons. for any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin likely would decline by a greater proportion because a majority of our expenses remain fixed. factors that could decrease aum (and therefore revenues) include the following: declines in the market value of aum in client portfolios. these could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which our aum are concentrated. approximately 43% of our total aum were invested in the equity asset class and approximately 57% were invested in the fixed income asset 12 table of contents class and other asset classes at december 31, 2018 . our aum as of january 31, 2019 were $930.6 billion . we cannot predict whether volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our aum are concentrated. any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin. redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, client portfolios. these could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in client portfolios in general or in the market segments in which invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance (relative or absolute) of the client portfolios managed by invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales and increased redemptions with corresponding decreases in our revenues. failure of our client portfolios to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and other alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, stable return accounts, and certain etfs. our revenues may decline if clients continue to shift their investments to lower fee accounts. in addition, the loss of key personnel or significant investment management professionals could reduce the attractiveness of our products to current and potential clients and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. investments in international markets . investment products that we manage may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization and asset confiscation. international trading markets, particularly emerging markets, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the developed world. competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, increase commissions paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries or could limit or reduce sales of our products, all of which could reduce our profitability. the investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and financial intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. we continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in many products. investors remain attracted to lower fee passive products, which have gained and may continue to gain share at the expense of active products. we face strong competition in every market in which we operate. our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. our competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. if these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants around the world have also resulted in increased competition. in recent years there have been several instances of industry consolidation, both in the area of distributors and manufacturers of investment products. further consolidation may occur in these areas in the future. the increasing size and market influence of certain distributors of our products and of certain direct competitors may have a negative impact on our ability to compete at the same levels of profitability in the future. we may not adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in global financial markets. if we are unable to effect appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace, our profitability, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility. 13 table of contents certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. these redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. in addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of fixed income investments and fixed income derivatives held in various investment portfolios and other products. thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from certain fixed income products. if securities within a money market portfolio default or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its nav. although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining nav. some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. additionally, we have investments in fixed income assets, including collateralized loan obligations and seed money in fixed income funds, the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates. the manner in which interest rates are calculated could also impact our client portfolios. for example, libor, as well as other interest rate, equity, foreign exchange rate and other types of indices which are deemed to be "benchmarks," are the subject of ongoing international, national and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. some of these reforms are already effective while others are still to be implemented. these reforms may cause libor to perform differently than in the past, or to disappear entirely, or have other consequences which cannot be fully anticipated. changes in the method pursuant to which libor is determined or the discontinuance of libor may adversely affect the amount of interest payable or interest receivable on certain portfolio investments. these changes may also impact the market liquidity and market value of these portfolio investments. we may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. we regularly review, and from time-to-time have discussions with and engage in, potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to pursue such transactions, be successful in negotiating the required agreements, or successfully close transactions after signing such agreements. acquisitions also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if pending transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to closing or integration. following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. there can be no assurance that such sellers will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. combining oppenheimerfunds may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized. in october 2018, invesco entered into a definitive agreement to acquire oppenheimerfunds from massmutual. invesco and oppenheimerfunds have operated and, until the completion of the acquisition, will continue to operate, independently. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of either company's ongoing businesses, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect the combined company's ability to maintain relationships with clients, distributors, employees and others, or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. if we experience difficulties with the integration process and attendant systems conversions, including due to the failure of critical third-party service providers, we may adversely impact client or distribution relationships. this could result in the loss of assets under management, or prevent or delay our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. integration efforts between the two companies will also divert significant management attention and resources. these integration matters could have an adverse effect on either company during this transition period and on the combined company for an undetermined period after completion of the acquisition. invesco and oppenheimerfunds will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the acquisition is pending. uncertainty about the effect of the acquisition on employees and clients may have an adverse effect on invesco and oppenheimerfunds. these uncertainties may impair the ability of both of us to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel 14 table of contents until the acquisition is completed, and could cause clients and others that deal with invesco or oppenheimerfunds to seek to change existing business relationships. the oppenheimerfunds business may lose clients as a result of the acquisition. under the investment company act of 1940, each of the investment advisory agreements for oppenheimerfunds-advised u.s. mutual funds that are registered as investment companies under the investment company act will automatically terminate as a result of the acquisition, and the investment advisory agreements of other oppenheimerfunds clients may also terminate if the parties fail to obtain the approval of such other clients for the continuation of such agreements following the acquisition. under the merger agreement, the parties agreed to seek the consent of other clients to the continuation of their advisory agreements following the acquisition. it is a condition to completing the acquisition that the parties obtain other client approvals reflecting, as of shortly prior to closing, annualized revenues of at least 75% of the amounts calculated before the signing of the merger agreement (with all revenue calculations adjusted to eliminate the impact of market and currency movements), and the purchase price is subject to adjustment if the shortfall exceeds a certain threshold. no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain the necessary approvals and consents, and the decrease in revenue that could result from a failure to obtain such approvals, even if the closing condition is satisfied and the purchase price impact taken into account, could have an adverse effect on our business and the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. the merger agreement may be terminated in accordance with its terms and the acquisition may not be completed. the merger agreement is subject to a number of conditions which must be fulfilled in order to complete the acquisition. those conditions include, among others (1) certain regulatory approvals, (2) absence of injunctions prohibiting the completion of the acquisition, (3) approval from the new york stock exchange for the listing of our common shares to be issued as part of the acquisition consideration, (4) adoption by us of a certificate of designation for the preferred shares to be issued as part of the acquisition consideration, (5) subject to certain materiality thresholds, the accuracy of the representations and warranties made by the other party, (6) material compliance by such other party with its respective obligations under the merger agreement and (7) the revenue run-rate as of shortly prior to the closing of the acquisition being at least equal to 75% of the revenue run-rate as of shortly prior to the signing of the merger agreement. additionally, massmutual's obligation to complete the transaction is subject to the receipt of a favorable opinion from its counsel regarding certain tax matters. these conditions to the closing of the acquisition may not be fulfilled in a timely manner or at all, and, accordingly, the acquisition may not be completed. in addition, the parties can mutually decide to terminate the merger agreement at any time, and each of us may elect to terminate the merger agreement in certain other circumstances. we will incur transaction and integration costs in connection with the acquisition of oppenheimerfunds. we expect to incur significant, non-recurring costs in connection with the acquisition of oppenheimerfunds. in addition, we will incur integration costs following the completion of the acquisition as we integrate the oppenheimerfunds business and systems with our own businesses and systems. there can be no assurances that the expected benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the business will be realized to offset these transaction and integration costs over time. see the risk factor entitled combining oppenheimerfunds may be more difficult, costly or time consuming than expected and the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the acquisition may not be realized above. we will also incur significant legal, accounting, and other advisor fees, including in connection with our efforts to seek the approval of the oppenheimerfunds clients to the transaction. some of these costs are payable regardless of whether the acquisition is completed. in connection with the acquisition of oppenheimerfunds, we will issue perpetual preferred stock having a value of approximately $4 billion, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and may limit our ability to fund other priorities. in connection with the acquisition, invesco will issue approximately $4 billion of 5.9% fixed rate perpetual preferred stock to the current shareholders of oppenheimerfunds. this issuance may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of common shares in certain circumstances; may increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; and will require a significant portion of cash flow from operations to make distributions. in connection with the acquisition of oppenheimerfunds, we will issue approximately 81.9 million common shares, which could adversely impact our trading price upon resale of those shares. we will issue approximately 81.9 million common shares in connection with the acquisition, most of which will be held by massmutual. the shares held by massmutual will be subject to an agreement not to sell those shares for a period 15 table of contents of two years following completion of the acquisition, subject to early termination, as well as to certain limitations on resales. however, massmutual may in the future sell these shares in the open market or through secondary offerings. if massmutual were to sell its future equity stake in invesco, or express an intention to sell the stake, that action could have a significant impact on our common share trading price. we depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems or facilities, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could result in significant limits on our ability to conduct our operations and activities, costs and reputational damage. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we are also dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security infrastructure, policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. we use our technology to, among other things, manage and trade portfolio investments, support our other operations, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, protect the privacy of clients', employees' and business partners' data and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. any inaccuracies, delays, systems failures or security breaches in these and other processes could disrupt our business operations, subject us to client, employee or business partner dissatisfaction and losses and/or subject us to reputational harm. our computer, communications, data processing, networks, backup, business continuity or other operating, information or technology systems and facilities, including those that we outsource to other providers, may fail to operate properly or become disabled, overloaded or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. further, third-party service providers may have limited indemnification obligations to us regarding cyber-incidents. in recent years, several financial services firms suffered cyber-attacks launched both domestically and from abroad, resulting in the disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of confidential data and reputational harm. cyber-security incidents and cyber-attacks have been occurring globally at a more frequent and severe level. our status as a global financial institution and the nature of our client base may enhance the risk that we are targeted by such cyber-threats. although we take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, and continually monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an external hacker attack by one or more cyber criminals or an authorized employee or vendor causing us to release confidential information inadvertently or through malfeasance, or lose temporarily or permanently data or applications or systems, which could materially harm our operations and reputation. the third parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries and technology infrastructure and service providers, are also susceptible to the foregoing risks (including regarding the third parties with which they are similarly interconnected or on which they otherwise rely), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom we or they are interconnected or conduct business. breach of our technology systems could damage our reputation and could result in the unauthorized disclosure or modification or loss of sensitive or confidential information (including client data); unauthorized disclosure modification or loss of proprietary information relating to our business; inability to process client or company transactions and processes; breach and termination of client contracts; liability for stolen assets, information or identity; remediation costs to repair damage caused by the breach, including damage to systems and recovery of lost data; additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents; regulatory actions (including fines and penalties, which could be material) and litigation costs resulting from the incident. such consequences could result in material financial loss and have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of key individuals or a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. retaining highly skilled technical and management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain our clients. the market for investment management professionals is competitive and has become more so in periods of growth of the investment management industry. the market for investment professionals and other key personnel is at times 16 table of contents characterized by the movement of these professionals among different firms. our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals and other key personnel with a supportive professional working environment and compensation and benefits (including equity and other forms of deferred compensation) that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. however, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of significant investment professionals or other key personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our net revenues and hinder our growth. we sell substantially all of our retail investment products through a variety of third party financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, fund supermarkets, regional broker-dealers, insurance companies, banks and financial planners in north america, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and supermarket platforms in europe and asia. no single one of these intermediaries is material to our business. increasing competition for these distribution channels could nevertheless cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. following the financial crisis, there has been consolidation of banks and broker-dealers, particularly in the u.s., and a limited amount of migration of brokers and financial advisors away from major banks to independent firms focused largely on providing advice. if these changes continue, our distribution costs could increase as a percentage of our revenues generated. additionally, particularly outside of the u.s., certain of the third party intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. investors, particularly in the institutional market, rely on external consultants and other third parties for advice on the choice of investment manager. these consultants and third parties tend to exert a significant degree of influence over their clients' choices, and they may favor a competitor of invesco as better meeting their particular clients' needs. there is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. similarly, particularly in the united states, certain distributors have substantially reduced the number of investment funds they make available to their customers. if a material portion of our distributors were to substantially narrow their product offerings, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources and the consultant community would impair our ability to sell our products, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. we may be unable to develop new products and services and the development of new products and services may expose us to additional costs or operational risk. our financial performance depends, in part, on the company's ability to develop, market and manage new investment products and services. the development and introduction of new products and services requires continued innovative efforts on our part and may require significant time and resources as well as ongoing support and investment. substantial risk and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including the implementation of new and appropriate operational controls and procedures, shifting client and market preferences, the introduction of competing products or services and compliance with regulatory requirements. new products often must be in the market place for three or more years in order to generate track records required to attract significant aum inflows. a failure to continue to innovate to introduce successful new products and services or to manage effectively the risks associated with such products and services may impact our market share relevance and may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. our financial condition and liquidity would be adversely affected by losses on our seed capital and co-investments . the company has investments in managed investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including, but not limited to equities, fixed income products, commodities, derivatives, and similar financial instruments, private equity and real estate. investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks, or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed capital and co-investments. a reduction in the value of these investments may adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. as of december 31, 2018 , the company had approximately $983.1 million in seed capital and co-investments, including direct investments in consolidated investment products (cip). failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines could result in damage awards against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. many of the investment management agreements under which we manage assets or provide products or services specify investment guidelines or requirements that we are required to observe in the provision of our services. laws and 17 table of contents regulations impose similar requirements for certain client portfolios (such as registered funds). a failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts. regulators likewise may commence enforcement actions for violations of such requirements. any such effects could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. we maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to prevent, detect and correct such errors. when an error is detected, a payment will typically be made into the applicable client account to correct it. significant errors for which we are responsible could impact our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time. substantially all of our revenues are derived from investment management agreements. investment management agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days' notice. agreements with u.s. registered funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the event of an assignment (as defined in the investment company act of 1940, as amended), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund's board of trustees or directors, as required by law. in addition, the boards of trustees or directors of certain other fund accounts generally may terminate these investment management agreements upon written notice for any reason. open-end registered fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of aum, generally on short notice. any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or aum, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. if our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income. our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and our good reputation is critical to our business. our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries, investigations or findings of wrongdoing, intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications, operational failures (including cyber breaches), employee dishonesty or other misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or eventually satisfactorily addressed. our business also requires us continuously to manage actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of other clients or those of invesco. the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if we fail - or appear to fail - to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address and manage these risks, but this task can be complex and difficult, and if our procedures and controls fail, our reputation could be damaged. any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our aum, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. the failure or negative performance of products offered by competitors may have a negative impact on similar invesco products irrespective of our performance. many competitors offer similar products to those offered by us and the failure or negative performance of competitors' products could lead to a loss of confidence in similar invesco products, irrespective of the performance of such products. any loss of confidence in a product type could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 18 table of contents the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we, and the client portfolios that we manage, have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, clearing organizations, hedge funds and other institutions. many of these transactions expose us or such client portfolios to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty. while we regularly conduct assessments of such risk posed by counterparties, the risk of non-performance by such parties is subject to sudden swings in the financial and credit markets. our ability to maintain our credit ratings and to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors. our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. we have received credit ratings of a2/stable, bbb+/stable and a-/positive from moody's investor services ("moody's"), standard &amp; poor's ratings service ("s&amp;p"), and fitch ratings ("fitch"), respectively, as of the date hereof. we believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to the fact that our revenues are exposed to equity market volatility and the potential impact from regulatory changes to the industry. additionally, the rating agencies could decide to downgrade the entire investment management industry, based on their perspective of future growth and solvency. material deterioration of these factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit ratings, thereby limiting our ability to access additional financing. management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings. our credit facility borrowing rates are tied to our credit ratings. a reduction in our long-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, could limit our access to the capital markets and may result in outflows thereby reducing aum and revenues. volatility in global finance markets may also affect our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so. if we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. as of december 31, 2018 , we had outstanding total debt of $2,408.8 million , excluding debt of cip, and total equity attributable to invesco ltd. of $8,578.8 million . the amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient assets or liquidity to repay such amounts in full. our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios. the credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. the breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or due to a significant and prolonged market-driven decline in our operating results) would result in a default under the credit facility. in the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if any indebtedness under the credit facility were subject to accelerated repayment and if we had at that time a significant amount of outstanding debt under the credit facility, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full. performance fees may increase revenue and earnings volatility. a portion of the company's revenues is derived from performance fees on investment advisory assignments. performance fees represented $56.9 million , or 1.1% , of total operating revenues for the year ended december 31, 2018 . in most cases, performance fees are based on relative or absolute investment returns, although in some cases they are based on achieving specific service standards. generally, the company is entitled to performance fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. if these targets are not exceeded, performance fees for that period will not be earned and, if targets are based on cumulative returns, the company may not 19 table of contents earn performance fees in future periods. performance fees will vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns and the timing of revenue recognition, causing our earnings to be more volatile. distribution of earnings of our subsidiaries may be subject to limitations, including net capital requirements. substantially all of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, intercompany loans or other payments by our subsidiaries to us. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries ' earnings and business considerations. for example, certain of our subsidiaries are required under applicable laws and regulations to maintain appropriate levels of capital. such requirements may change from time-to-time as additional guidance is released based on a variety of factors, including balance sheet composition, assessment of risk exposures and governance and review from regulators. these and other similar provisions of applicable laws and regulations may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. all of our regulated eu subsidiaries are subject to consolidated capital requirements under eu directives, including those arising from the eu's capital requirements directive and the u.k.'s internal capital adequacy assessment process (icaap), and capital is maintained within this sub-group to satisfy these regulations. we meet these requirements in part by holding cash and cash equivalents. this retained cash can be used for general business purposes in the european sub-group in the countries where it is located. due to the capital restrictions, the ability to transfer cash between certain jurisdictions may be limited. in addition, transfers of cash between international jurisdictions may have adverse tax consequences. as of december 31, 2018 , the company's minimum regulatory capital requirement was $720.2 million . complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the european sub-group. as a result of corporate restructuring and regulatory requirements, certain of these eu subsidiaries may be required to limit their dividends to the ultimate parent company, invesco ltd. our financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute funds to us. we are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states. we have offices in numerous countries and sponsor many cross border and local proprietary funds that are domiciled outside the united states and may face difficulties in managing, operating and marketing our international operations. our international operations expose us to the political and economic consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions and subject us to expropriation risks, expatriation controls and potential adverse tax consequences. since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the united states and have functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. the largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our aum, is presently denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the united states whose functional currencies are not the u.s. dollar. as a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. consequently, significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the u.k. pound sterling, euro, or canadian dollar, among other currencies, could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results. terrorist activity and the continued threat of terrorism, as well as increased geopolitical unrest could adversely affect the global economy or specific international, regional and domestic markets, which may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. terrorist activity and the continued threat of terrorism and acts of civil or international hostility, both within the united states and abroad, as well as ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and declines in the global markets, loss of life, property damage, disruptions to commerce and reduced economic activity. continued geopolitical unrest and terrorist activity that adversely affect the global economy, capital markets or specific international, regional or domestic markets may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. 20 table of contents failure to establish adequate controls and risk management policies, the circumvention of controls and policies or fraud could have an adverse effect on our reputation and financial position. we have established a comprehensive risk management process and continue to enhance various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risks to our business; however, we cannot be assured that such controls, procedures, policies and systems will successfully identify and manage internal and external risks to our business. we are subject to the risk that our employees, contractors or other third parties may deliberately seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud (including through cyber breaches) or act in ways that are inconsistent with our controls, policies and procedures. persistent or repeated attempts involving conflicts of interests, circumvention of policies and controls or fraud could have a materially adverse impact on our reputation and could lead to costly regulatory inquiries. our business is vulnerable to deficiencies and failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to breaches and errors or reputational harm, resulting in loss of customers or claims against us or our subsidiaries. in addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, marketing, shareholder servicing and trust, custody and other fiduciary services. in order to be competitive and comply with our agreements, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations and required distributions to fund shareholders. the ability to consistently and reliably obtain accurate securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and clients in accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. certain types of securities may experience liquidity constraints that would require increased use of fair value pricing, which is dependent on certain subjective judgments that have the potential to be challenged. any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports or other breaches and errors and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate clients or distributors and potentially give rise to claims against us. our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party service providers. certain of these processes involve a degree of manual input, and thus problems could occur from time-to-time due to human error. our failure to properly perform and monitor our operations or our otherwise suffering deficiencies and failures in these systems or service functions could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. the failure of one of our third party service providers or other key vendors to fulfill its obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or business, which may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. we depend on third party service providers and other key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody, risk analytics, market data, market indices and transfer agent roles, and other distribution and operational needs. if our third party service providers or other key vendors fail to fulfill their obligations to us, it could lead to operational and regulatory problems, including with respect to certain of our products, which could result in losses, enforcement actions, or reputational harm and may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we have goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to annual impairment reviews. we also have definite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to impairment testing if indicators of impairment are identified. goodwill and intangible assets totaled $7,157.1 million and $2,176.1 million , respectively, at december 31, 2018 . we may not realize the value of such assets. we perform impairment reviews of the book values of these assets on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. a variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related assets would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting policies - goodwill and - intangibles, for additional details of our impairment analysis process. 21 table of contents if we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we believe our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems should mitigate adverse impacts. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational problems with regard to particular areas of our operations. further, as we strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. although we seek to assess regularly and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. we operate in an industry that is highly regulated in many countries, and any enforcement action or adverse changes in the laws or regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict our business activities, conduct examinations, risk assessments, investigations and capital adequacy reviews and impose remedial programs to address perceived deficiencies. as a result of regulatory oversight, we could face requirements which negatively impact the way in which we conduct business, increase compliance costs and/or impose additional capital requirements. our regulators likewise have the authority to commence enforcement actions which could lead to sanctions up to and including the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel or the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities, or in private litigation against us, could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues. any of the effects discussed above could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. a substantial portion of the products and services we offer are regulated by the securities and exchange commission (sec), financial industry regulatory authority (finra), the commodities future trading commission (cftc), the national futures association (nfa) and the texas department of banking in the united states and by the financial conduct authority (fca) and the prudential regulatory authority (pra) in the united kingdom. subsidiaries operating in the european union (eu) are subject to various eu directives, which generally are implemented by member state national legislation and by eu regulations. our operations elsewhere in the world are regulated by similar regulatory organizations. the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen a significant increase in regulation in recent years. various changes in laws and regulations have been enacted or otherwise implemented in multiple jurisdictions globally in response to the crisis in the financial markets that began in 2007. various other proposals remain under consideration by legislators, regulators, other government officials and other public policy commentators. certain enacted provisions and certain other proposals are potentially far reaching and, depending upon their implementation, could have a material impact on our business. while certain of these provisions appear to address perceived problems in the banking sector, some will or may be applied more broadly and affect other financial services companies, including investment managers. while invesco does not believe that the these post-crisis developments have or will fundamentally change the investment management industry or cause invesco to reconsider its basic strategy, certain provisions have required, and other provisions will or may require, us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also have increased regulatory burdens and related compliance costs, and will or may continue to do so. more broadly, we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. to the extent that existing regulations are interpreted or amended or future regulations are adopted in a manner that reduces the sale, or increases the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affects the investment performance of our products or impacts our product mix, our aggregate aum and our revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, regulatory changes have imposed and may continue to impose additional costs or capital requirements, which could negatively impact our profitability or return on equity. 22 table of contents the eu has promulgated or is considering various new or revised directives pertaining to financial services, including investment managers. such directives are progressing at various stages, and generally have been, are being or will or would be implemented by national legislation in member states. ongoing changes in the eu's regulatory framework applicable to our business, including changes related to brexit and any other changes in the composition of the eu's member states, may add further complexity to our global risks and operations. developments under regulatory changes will or may include, without limitation: new or increased capital requirements and related regulation. limitations on holdings of certain commodities under proposed regulations of the cftc which could result in capacity constraints for our products that employ commodities as part of their investment strategy. regulations impacting the standard of care a financial adviser owes to its clients including the sec's proposed best interests standard. other changes to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products. in 2015, the fca undertook a study of the asset management industry and released their final report in june 2017. the report highlighted a number of specific industry issues and proposed a number of remedies that will take place in a number of stages, including: changes to governance, changes to fee structures to provide clients with increased transparency, improved disclosure in client documentation, improved ability for retail clients to change share classes and changes to pension pooling and investment consultant regulations in the institutional segment. the markets in financial instruments directive ii (mifid ii) in the eu, effective in january 2018, seeks to promote a single market for wholesale and retail transactions in financial instruments. mifid ii addresses the conduct of business rules for intermediaries providing investment services and the effective, efficient and safe operation of financial markets. key elements of mifid ii are the extent to which retrocessions may be paid and the use of trading commissions to fund research. beginning in january 2018, the company has absorbed external research costs incurred for mifid ii impacting funds and client accounts in europe. while the foregoing provisions only impact the eu, client-driven competitive pressures may cause an expansion of these principles to other business regions in which we operate, including the united states. an increased focus on liquidity in funds (including fixed income funds), an example of which is the sec's rules with respect to liquidity and liquidity risk management applicable to certain types of registered u.s. funds that took effect in 2018. increased requirements to provide regulators and investors more granular detail regarding our products and services, including the sec's reporting modernization rule applicable to certain types of registered u.s. funds that took effect in 2018. regulations pertaining to the privacy of data with respect to clients, employees and business partners. in particular, effective may 25, 2018, the eu's general data protection regulation (gdpr) has strengthened data protection rules for individuals within the eu and the export of data outside of the eu. a failure to comply with gdpr could result in fines up to 20 million euros or 4% of our annual revenues, whichever is higher. increased regulatory scrutiny on operations of private capital funds. requirements pertaining to the trading of securities and other financial instruments, such as swaps and other derivatives, including certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and european market infrastructure regulation; these include significant reporting requirements, designated trading venues, mandated central clearing arrangements, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain financial institutions, other conduct requirements and potentially new taxes or similar fees. heightened regulatory examinations and inspections, including enforcement reviews, and a more aggressive posture regarding commencing enforcement proceedings resulting in fines, penalties and additional remedial activities to firms and to individuals. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, regulators in the united states and the united kingdom have taken and can be expected to continue to take a more aggressive posture on bringing enforcement proceedings. enhanced licensing and qualification requirements for key personnel, including the united kingdom senior managers and certification regime, which becomes effective in 2019. guidelines regarding the structure and components of fund manager compensation and other additional rules and regulations and disclosure requirements. certain provisions impose additional disclosure burdens on public companies. certain proposals could impose requirements for more widespread disclosures of compensation to highly-paid individuals. depending upon the scope of any such requirements, invesco could be disadvantaged in retaining key employees vis- -vis private companies, including hedge fund sponsors. 23 table of contents strengthening standards regarding various ethical matters, including compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and anti-money-laundering laws and regulations. regulations promulgated to address perceptions that the asset management industry, or certain of its entities or activities, pose systematic risks to the financial system. regulations promulgated to protect personal data and address risks of fraud, malfeasance or other adverse consequences stemming from cyber attacks. other changes impacting the identity or the organizational structure of regulators with supervisory authority over invesco. we cannot at this time predict the full impact of potential legal and regulatory changes or possible enforcement proceedings on our business. such changes have imposed, and may continue to impose, new compliance costs and/or capital requirements or impact invesco in other ways that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. moreover, certain legal or regulatory changes could require us to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur other new constraints or costs, including the investment of significant management time and resources in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. in recent years, certain regulatory developments have also added downward pressures regarding fee levels. to the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of our products and services or our investment strategies cause or contribute to reduced sales or increased redemptions of our products, impair the investment performance of our products or impact our product mix, our aum and results of operations might be adversely affected. civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions could adversely affect our aum and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business. invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings, including civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions. these actions can arise from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory reviews. as a global company with investment products registered in numerous countries and subject to the jurisdiction of one or more regulators in each country, at any given time, our business operations may be subject to review, investigation or disciplinary action. for example, in the united states, united kingdom and other jurisdictions in which the company operates, governmental authorities regularly make inquiries, hold investigations and administer market conduct examinations with respect to the company's compliance with applicable laws and regulations. lawsuits or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of these inquiries may in the future be filed against the company and related entities and individuals in the united states, united kingdom and other jurisdictions in which the company and its affiliates operate. see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 18 -- "commitments and contingencies, for additional information. judgments in civil litigation or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. there is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation. the international tax environment continues to change as a result of both coordinated actions by governments and unilateral measures designed by individual countries, both intended to tackle concerns over base erosion and profit shifting (beps) and perceived international tax avoidance techniques. the recommendations of the beps project led by the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) and the anti-tax avoidance directive (atad) from the european union (eu) are involved in much of the coordinated activity. as with any global implementation process there are concerns about potential lack of consistency in the local application of these items. some of the recommendations are complex while others contain optional routes, thereby increasing the likelihood of only partial or limited implementation. although the timing and methods of implementation vary, several jurisdictions have enacted legislation that is aligned with, and in some cases exceeds the scope of, the oecd's recommendations. this could lead to increased uncertainty with tax positions as well as increase the potential for double taxation. 24 table of contents in 2018, the eu introduced mandatory disclosure rules (dac6) requiring disclosure to tax authorities of cross-border arrangements entered into by taxpayers that fall within certain, broadly defined hallmarks. there also are separate transitional rules that require separate reporting for any disclosable transactions occurring after the june 25, 2018 effective date. on july 1, 2018, the oecd enacted the multilateral convention to implement tax treaty related measures to prevent base erosion and profit shifting (the multilateral instrument or mli). the mli implements several beps initiatives: action 2 - hybrid mismatch arrangements; action 6 - treaty abuse; action 7 - definition of permanent establishment; and action 14 - mutual agreement procedures (map) as well as arbitration. additionally, a few eu countries have enacted or proposed a tax on digital services in response to an inability to agree on an eu wide proposal. we continually assess the impact of various u.s. federal, state and foreign legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, which could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal, state or foreign taxes. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our future results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. on june 21, 2018, in south dakota v. wayfair, inc. (wayfair), the u.s. supreme court overruled prior court decisions that had precluded states from imposing a sales and use tax collection obligation on sellers unless they had a physical presence in the state. the wayfair decision is expected to increase state nexus expansion as more states turn to economic nexus threshold laws and away from physical presence nexus tests. the tax cuts and jobs act (the 2017 tax act) enacted on december 22, 2017, significantly reformed the taxation of business entities. the new legislation, among other things, includes changes to u.s. federal tax rates, imposes significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, allows for the expensing of capital expenditures, and puts into effect the migration from a worldwide system of taxation to a territorial system. the scope and breadth of the changes and the volume of regulations and guidance issued to date and yet to be issued means the ultimate impact of the 2017 tax act on our business and financial condition remains to be determined. on october 21, 2016, the united states treasury and the irs published final and temporary regulations under section 385 of the internal revenue code ("385 regulations") that target the inbound financing of a foreign-parented multinational group's u.s. subsidiaries. there are no immediate impacts to the company's financial position as a result of the application of the 385 regulations, however, in the future they could limit our ability to efficiently finance or otherwise choose between debt and equity transactions with our u.s. subsidiaries. examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions and are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes (and, in certain cases, interest, fines or penalties). we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. the european commission continues to investigate certain tax rulings and beneficial regimes provided by member states to particular taxpayers that it believes may have violated the eu restriction on state aid. the investigation was triggered by the oecd / beps action plan as well as the eu's own agenda to tackle aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance. there is considerable uncertainty with the approach being taken, including retroactive application (10 year period), conflicts with oecd transfer pricing guidelines and implications to bilateral tax treaties. while the company does not believe it has received state aid and is not a party to any investigation, due to the uncertainty of the process and retroactive nature of the assessments any potential future findings could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our future results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 25 table of contents bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to shareholders. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a company incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda (companies act). the companies act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. under bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances described in the following paragraph. however, directors and officers may owe duties to a company's creditors in cases of impending insolvency. directors and officers of a bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. if a director or officer of a bermuda company is found to have breached such director's duties to that company, the director may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of bermuda. however, the bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow english case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in a company's name against the directors and officers to remedy a wrong done to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the company's corporate power or is illegal or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of shareholders than actually approved it. under our second amended and restated bye-laws (bye-laws), each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against the company or any of our officers, directors or employees. the waiver applies to any action taken by a director, officer or employee, or the failure of such person to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the director, officer or employee. this waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our directors, officers and employees unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. our bye-laws also provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his or her own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the companies act. because we are incorporated in bermuda, it may be difficult for shareholders to serve process or enforce judgments against us or our directors and officers. the company is organized under the laws of bermuda. in addition, certain of our officers and directors reside in countries outside the united states. a substantial portion of the company's assets and the assets of these officers and directors are or may be located outside the united states. investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the united states on our directors and officers who reside outside the united states or recovering against the company or these directors and officers on judgments of u.s. courts based on civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws, even though the company has appointed an agent in the united states to receive service of process. further, it may not be possible in bermuda or in countries other than the united states where the company has assets to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against the company based on the civil liability provisions of u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against the company or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or would hear actions against the company or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised by our legal advisors in bermuda that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. some remedies available under the laws of the united states or the states therein, including some remedies available under the u.s. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in bermuda courts because they may be found to be contrary to bermuda public policy. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any 26 table of contents federal or state court in the united states based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in other countries other than the united states. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or to obtain majority representation on our board of directors without the consent of our board. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares under such circumstances. specifically, our bye-laws contain the following provisions that may impede or delay an unsolicited takeover of the company: we are prohibited from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination (as defined in our bye-laws) with any interested shareholder (as defined in our bye-laws) for three years following the date that the shareholder became an interested shareholder; our board of directors, without further shareholder action, is permitted by our bye-laws to issue preference shares, in one or more series, and determine by resolution any designations, preferences, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions, or special or relative rights of an additional series. the rights of preferred shareholders may supersede the rights of common shareholders; shareholders may only remove directors for cause (defined in our bye-laws to mean willful misconduct or gross negligence which is materially injurious to the company, fraud or embezzlement, or a conviction of, or a plea of guilty or no contest to, a felony); our board of directors is authorized to expand its size and fill vacancies; and shareholders cannot act by written consent unless the consent is unanimous. our independent registered public accounting firm has advised us that it identified an issue related to an independence requirement contained in the securities exchange act of 1934 regulations regarding auditor independence. in may 2016, pricewaterhousecoopers llp (pwc) advised the company that it had identified an issue related to its independence under rule 2-01(c)(1)(ii)(a) of regulation s-x (loan rule) with respect to certain of pwc's lenders who own certain invesco registered funds managed by certain of our wholly-owned investment adviser subsidiaries. the company and such funds are required to have their financial statements audited by a public accounting firm that qualifies as independent under various sec rules. the loan rule prohibits accounting firms, such as pwc, from having certain financial relationships with their audit clients and affiliated entities. specifically, the loan rule provides, in relevant part, that an accounting firm is not independent if it receives a loan from a lender that is a record or beneficial owner of more than ten percent of the audit client's equity securities. for purposes of the loan rule, audit clients include all of the registered investment companies advised by affiliates of the company, as well as the company and its other subsidiaries (collectively, the invesco funds complex) for which pwc also serves as independent auditor. pwc informed the company it has relationships with lenders who hold, as record owner, more than ten percent of the shares of certain funds within the invesco fund complex. these relationships call into question pwc's independence under the loan rule with respect to those funds, as well as all other funds in the invesco fund complex and the company and its subsidiaries. in june 2016, the sec staff issued a no-action letter to another mutual fund complex (see fidelity management &amp; research company et al., no-action letter ) related to the audit independence issue described above. in that letter, the sec staff confirmed that it would not recommend enforcement action against an audit client that relied on audit services performed by an audit firm that was not in compliance with the loan rule in certain specified circumstances. the circumstances described in the no-action letter are substantially similar to the circumstances that called into question pwc's independence under the loan rule with respect to the invesco funds complex, including the company. the company therefore believes that the invesco funds complex can rely on the letter to continue to issue financial statements that are audited by pwc and we intend to do so. in september 2017, the sec staff issued a letter extending the relief in the june 2016 no-action letter referenced above. the extension makes no changes to the circumstances in the original no-action letter and does not include a new expiration date, providing indefinite relief. if in the future the independence of pwc is called into question under the loan rule by circumstances that are not addressed in the sec staff's no-action letter, the company will need to take other action and incur additional costs in order for the company's filings with the sec containing financial statements to be deemed compliant with applicable 27 table of contents securities laws. such action may include obtaining the review and audit of the financial statements filed by the company by another independent registered public accounting firm. in addition, under such circumstances, the company's eligibility to issue securities under its existing registration statements on form s-3 and forms s-8 may be impacted and certain financial reporting covenants with our lenders may be impacted. there could be other burdensome requirements or impacts on other entities (including registered funds) included in the invesco funds complex. such consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. insurance may not be available at a reasonable cost to protect us from liability. we face the inherent risk of liability related to claims from clients, third-party vendors or others, actions taken by regulatory agencies and costs and losses associated with cyber incidents. to help protect against these risks, we purchase insurance in amounts, and against potential liabilities, that we consider appropriate, where such insurance is available at prices we deem reasonable. there can be no assurance, however, that a claim or claims will be covered by insurance or, if covered, will not exceed coverage limits, or that an insurer will meet its obligations regarding coverage, or that coverage will continue to be available on a cost effective basis. insurance costs are impacted by market conditions and the risk profile of the insured, and may increase significantly over relatively short periods. in addition, certain insurance coverage may not be available or may only be available at prohibitive costs. renewals of insurance policies may expose us to additional costs through higher premiums or the assumption of higher deductibles or co-insurance liability. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the company is primarily exposed to market risk in the form of aum market price risk, securities market risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk. aum market price risk the company's investment management revenues are comprised of fees based on the value of aum. declines in the market prices of equity and fixed income securities, commodities and derivatives, or other similar financial instruments held in client portfolios could cause revenues to decline because of lower investment management fees by: causing the value of aum to decrease. causing the returns realized on aum to decrease (impacting performance fees). causing clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments in markets that they perceive to offer greater opportunity and that the company does not serve. causing clients to rebalance assets away from investments that the company manages into investments that the company does not manage. causing clients to reallocate assets away from products that earn higher revenues into products that earn lower revenues. 72 table of contents underperformance of client accounts relative to competing products could exacerbate these factors. assuming the revenue yield on aum for the year remains unchanged, a 10% decline in the average aum for the year would result in a corresponding decline in revenue. certain expenses, including distribution and compensation expenses, may not vary in proportion with the changes in the market value of aum. as such, the impact on operating margin or net income of a decline in the market values of aum may be greater or less than the percentage decline in the market value of aum. securities market risk the company's exposure to market risk from financial instruments measured at fair value arises from its investments and also from its contingent consideration liability. the following table summarizes the impact of a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values or the market inputs contributing to the fair value of these financial instruments: december 31, 2018 $ in millions fair value fair value assuming 10% increase fair value assuming 10% decrease equity investments (a) 283.2 311.5 254.9 total assets measured at fair value exposed to market risk 283.2 311.5 254.9 direct investments in cip (b) 615.8 677.4 554.2 contingent consideration liability (c) (40.9 ) (45.0 ) (36.8 ) ____________ (a) if such a 10% increase or decrease in fair values were to occur, the change attributable to $283.2 million of these equity investments would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings. at december 31, 2018 , $78.6 million of these equity investments are held to hedge economically certain deferred compensation plans in which the company participates. in addition to holding equity investments, in 2017, the company purchased a total return swap to economically hedge certain deferred compensation plans. the notional value of the total return swap at december 1, 2018 was $103.9 million . the company recognizes as compensation expense the appreciation or depreciation of the compensation liability over the award's vesting period in proportion to the vested amount of the award. the company immediately recognizes the appreciation or depreciation of these investments, which is included in other gains and losses. this creates a timing difference between the recognition of the compensation expense and the investment gain or loss impacting net income, which will reverse and will offset to zero over the life of the award at the end of the multi-year vesting period. (b) these represent invesco's direct investments in investment products that are consolidated. upon consolidation, these direct investments are eliminated, and the assets and liabilities of the cip are consolidated in the consolidated balance sheet, together with a noncontrolling interest balance representing the portion of the cip owned by third parties. in addition, in the third quarter of 2018, the company entered into total return swap agreements with respect to certain etfs. through the total return swap agreements, the company holds an indirect interest in the etfs. at december 31, 2018, the aggregate notional value of the total return swaps was $171.0 million . if a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values of invesco's direct investments in cip and total return swap instruments were to occur, it would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our net income attributable to invesco ltd. (c) during 2015, the company acquired investment management contracts from deutsche bank. this liability represents the purchase price, which was comprised solely of contingent consideration payable in future periods and is linked to future revenues generated from the contracts. the contingent consideration liability was recorded at fair value at the acquisition date and subsequent changes in the fair value are recorded in other gains and losses, net in the consolidated statements of income. if a 10% increase or decrease in the fair value of the contingent consideration liability were to occur, it would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our net income attributable to invesco ltd. cash balances invested in money market funds of $367.6 million have been excluded from the table above. these are valued under the market approach at the net asset value of the underlying funds, which is maintained at $1. assets held for policyholders of $11,384.8 million have also been excluded from the table above. the entity holds assets that are managed for its clients on its balance sheet with an equal and offsetting liability to the policyholders, which is linked to the value of the investments. the 73 table of contents investments and the policyholder payables held by this business are carried in the consolidated balance sheets as separate account assets and liabilities at fair value in accordance with asc topic 944, financial services - insurance. changes in fair value are recorded and offset to zero in the consolidated statements of income in other operating revenues. increases or decreases in the fair value of these investments will therefore have no impact to our pre-tax earnings. interest rate risk interest rate risk relates to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its external debt and cash and cash equivalent investments. on december 31, 2018 , the interest rates on 86.3% of the company's borrowings were fixed for a weighted average period of 8.9 years, and the company had a balance of $330.8 million on its floating rate credit facility. the interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the company on december 31 was: $ in millions december 31, 2018 december 31, 2017 long-term debt fixed rate 2,078.0 2,075.8 floating rate 330.8 total 2,408.8 2,075.8 weighted average interest rate percentage 3.8 % 3.9 % weighted average period for which rate is fixed in years 8.9 9.9 see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 8 , long-term debt for additional disclosures relating to the u.s. dollar floating and fixed rate obligations. the company's fixed interest financial assets at december 31, 2018 , include foreign time deposit investments of $28.1 million ( 2017 : $28.6 million ). the weighted average interest rate on these investments is 0.46% ( 2017 : 0.39% ) and the weighted average time for which the rate is fixed is 0.2 years ( 2017 : 0.1 years). foreign exchange rate risk the company has transactional currency exposures that occur when any of the company's subsidiaries receive or pay cash in a currency different from its functional currency. such exposure arises from sales or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. these exposures are not actively managed. the company also has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets and results of operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risk when translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation into invesco ltd. a strengthening u.s. dollar has a negative impact on the company's foreign currency denominated earnings when presented in u.s. dollars. the company's most significant foreign exchange rate risk exposure relates to the translation of pound sterling-denominated transactions into the u.s. dollar reporting currency. item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 17 , "geographic information," contains disclosure of revenue from external customers by geography. the disclosure of revenues from external customers earned in the u.k. is an indicator of the company's exposure to the pound sterling; however, expenses incurred in the u.k. provide a natural offset to the company's exposure to the pound sterling. given this exposure, the company continued to hedge this risk through out-of-the money put option contracts to hedge economically the foreign currency risk on the translation of its pound sterling-denominated earnings into u.s. dollars through the june 29, 2019 . these programs may serve to reduce, but not fully eliminate the impact of pound sterling foreign currency risk and the impact on our consolidated income statements. the pound sterling/u.s. dollar contracts have a strike price set at $1.25 based on the average daily foreign exchange rates for the applicable time period. other than the fair value of the put option contracts, there is no additional loss exposure to the company, only the potential for a gain should the average exchange rates fall below the strike levels during the hedged periods. at december 31, 2018 , a 10% decline in the annual average pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rate would result in a positive cash flow from the pound sterling/u.s. dollar contracts of $15.5 million. in january, the company entered into additional put option contracts to hedge its pound-sterling-based operating income through the end of 2019. these new put options contracts are set at a strike level of $1.25 . 74 table of contents the company is exposed to foreign exchange revaluation into the consolidated statements of income on monetary assets and liabilities that are held by subsidiaries in different functional currencies than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. net foreign exchange revaluation gains were $4.2 million in 2018 ( 2017 : $15.7 million of gains), and are included in general and administrative expenses and other gains and losses, net on the consolidated statements of income. we continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange revaluation and have put in place net investment hedge structures discussed in part ii, item 8, financial statements, note 10 --"other comprehensive income/(loss)." supplementary quarterly financial data the following is selected unaudited consolidated data for invesco ltd. for the quarters indicated: 2018 2017 $ in millions, except per share data q4 q3 q2 q1 q4 q3 q2 q1 operating revenues: investment management fees 949.2 1,038.9 1,050.5 1,043.7 1,098.7 1,062.3 1,010.4 955.2 service and distribution fees 231.5 248.0 242.9 246.1 217.5 217.6 211.3 206.4 performance fees 28.3 7.9 11.6 9.1 43.0 42.3 16.7 11.3 other 46.9 47.0 55.6 56.9 16.4 15.5 16.0 19.7 total operating revenues 1,255.9 1,341.8 1,360.6 1,355.8 1,375.6 1,337.7 1,254.4 1,192.6 operating expenses: third-party distribution, service and advisory 372.2 408.0 408.9 419.1 390.9 380.4 365.9 349.3 employee compensation 349.3 380.7 379.2 385.2 379.4 378.8 360.7 380.7 marketing 41.3 33.4 32.1 28.0 38.8 29.5 29.1 24.4 property, office and technology 108.0 103.7 98.6 100.2 99.5 92.6 87.8 84.7 general and administrative 92.9 60.8 87.0 83.7 93.7 75.2 72.2 65.8 transaction, integration and restructuring (1) 61.8 33.1 23.5 18.5 30.7 20.9 20.4 29.8 total operating expenses 1,025.5 1,019.7 1,029.3 1,034.7 1,033.0 977.4 936.1 934.7 operating income 230.4 322.1 331.3 321.1 342.6 360.3 318.3 257.9 other income/(expense): equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 5.0 11.8 7.3 9.7 3.6 12.9 10.5 17.7 interest and dividend income 10.3 4.0 2.8 4.2 6.4 2.5 1.6 2.9 interest expense (29.2 ) (29.6 ) (29.5 ) (23.2 ) (23.6 ) (23.6 ) (23.6 ) (24.0 ) other gains and losses, net (41.9 ) 5.9 1.4 (5.4 ) 25.6 13.9 3.1 6.9 other income/(expense) of cip, net (26.6 ) 28.1 0.9 27.2 44.8 31.7 32.3 28.5 income before income taxes 148.0 342.3 314.2 333.6 399.4 397.7 342.2 289.9 income tax (provision)/benefits (53.2 ) (61.1 ) (72.3 ) (68.4 ) 23.2 (123.1 ) (92.6 ) (75.7 ) net income 94.8 281.2 241.9 265.2 422.6 274.6 249.6 214.2 net (income)/loss attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities 19.4 (11.6 ) 3.2 (11.3 ) (14.4 ) (7.1 ) (10.0 ) (2.2 ) net income attributable to invesco ltd. 114.2 269.6 245.1 253.9 408.2 267.5 239.6 212.0 earnings per share (2) : basic $0.28 $0.65 $0.59 $0.62 $1.00 $0.65 $0.58 $0.52 diluted $0.28 $0.65 $0.59 $0.62 $0.99 $0.65 $0.58 $0.52 average shares outstanding (2) : basic 410.0 414.3 413.9 411.3 410.0 410.0 409.9 407.7 diluted 410.1 414.4 414.1 411.8 410.6 410.5 410.3 408.0 dividends declared per share: $0.30 $0.30 $0.30 $0.29 $0.29 $0.29 $0.29 $0.28 ____________ (1) during the fourth quarter of 2018, the company added a new u.s. gaap income statement line item, "transaction, integration and restructuring." this line item includes transaction-related costs for acquisitions, as well as integration and restructuring-related costs. the presentation of prior period amounts has been reclassified to be consistent with the current period presentation. such reclassifications had no impact on total operating revenues, operating expenses, net income, total assets, total liabilities, or equity attributable to invesco ltd. see reconciliations on the following page. (2) the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may differ from the annual earnings per share amounts due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in interim periods. 75 table of contents the table below details the reclassification of transaction, integration and restructuring: $ in millions q3-18 q2-18 q1-18 operating expenses as reported reclassification as revised as reported reclassification as revised as reported reclassification as revised third-party distribution, service and advisory $ 408.0 $ $ 408.0 $ 408.9 $ $ 408.9 $ 419.1 $ $ 419.1 employee compensation 385.5 (4.8 ) 380.7 381.1 (1.9 ) 379.2 390.4 (5.2 ) 385.2 marketing 34.0 (0.6 ) 33.4 32.8 (0.7 ) 32.1 28.1 (0.1 ) 28.0 property, office and technology 104.8 (1.1 ) 103.7 101.7 (3.1 ) 98.6 102.2 (2.0 ) 100.2 general and administrative 87.4 (26.6 ) 60.8 104.8 (17.8 ) 87.0 94.9 (11.2 ) 83.7 transaction, integration and restructuring 33.1 33.1 23.5 23.5 18.5 18.5 total operating expenses $ 1,019.7 $ $ 1,019.7 $ 1,029.3 $ $ 1,029.3 $ 1,034.7 $ $ 1,034.7 $ in millions q4-17 q3-17 q2-17 q1-17 operating expenses as reported (a) reclassification as revised as reported (a) reclassification as revised as reported (a) reclassification as revised as reported (a) reclassification as revised third-party distribution, service and advisory $ 390.9 $ $ 390.9 $ 380.4 $ $ 380.4 $ 365.9 $ $ 365.9 $ 349.3 $ $ 349.3 employee compensation 383.6 (4.2 ) 379.4 388.1 (9.3 ) 378.8 366.2 (5.5 ) 360.7 397.5 (16.8 ) 380.7 marketing 40.7 (1.9 ) 38.8 29.5 29.5 29.1 29.1 24.4 24.4 property, office and technology 102.8 (3.3 ) 99.5 92.8 (0.2 ) 92.6 89.0 (1.2 ) 87.8 85.5 (0.8 ) 84.7 general and administrative 115.0 (21.3 ) 93.7 86.6 (11.4 ) 75.2 85.9 (13.7 ) 72.2 78.0 (12.2 ) 65.8 transaction, integration and restructuring 30.7 30.7 20.9 20.9 20.4 20.4 29.8 29.8 total operating expenses $ 1,033.0 $ $ 1,033.0 $ 977.4 $ $ 977.4 $ 936.1 $ $ 936.1 $ 934.7 $ $ 934.7 (a) reflects the adoption of pension cost guidance on january 1, 2018, which required the prior period reclassification of the non-service cost components of certain pension costs into compensation costs. 76 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively affect invesco's revenues, operations, financial condition and liquidity. in recent years, capital and credit markets have experienced substantial volatility. in this regard: in the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure or disruptions in the global financial system or failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in aum and severe liquidity or valuation problems in managed investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and ability to retain and attract key employees. additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. illiquidity and/or volatility of the global fixed income and/or equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows or to timely meet client redemption requests. uncertainties regarding geopolitical developments can produce volatility in global financial markets. as an example, although negotiations between the uk and eu resulted in the uk leaving the eu under the terms of the withdrawal agreement on january 31, 2020, the longer term relationship between the uk and the eu is still uncertain. this may impact the levels and composition of our aum and also negatively impact investor sentiment, which could result in reduced or negative flows. in addition, because the uk pound sterling is the functional currency for certain of our subsidiaries, any weakening of the uk pound sterling relative to the u.s. dollar could negatively impact our reported financial results. changes to united states tax, tariff and import/export regulations may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. currently, there is significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the united states and other countries, including china and the eu, with respect to trade policies, treaties, taxes, government regulations and tariffs. it is unclear what changes may be considered or implemented and what the response will be to any such changes by other governments of such affected countries. these developments, or the perception that any of them could occur, may have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and may significantly reduce global trade and, in particular, trade between these nations and the united states. given our strong position in asia pacific and emea, we could be more adversely affected than others by such market uncertainties. in the u.s., regulations requiring a variable ( floating ) net asset value (nav) for institutional prime and tax-free money market funds became effective in october 2016. those same regulations also provide for the potential imposition of the assessment of fees in connection with redemptions and/or gates that postpone the time in which redemptions must be processed in the event those funds' weekly liquid assets fall below certain specified thresholds. our government money market funds and retail prime and tax-free money market funds continue to offer a stable nav of $1.00 per common share and are not required to impose fees and gates; however, we do not guarantee such nav level. market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could lead to the imposition of fees or gates with respect to institutional prime and tax-free money market funds and an effect on the navs of government and retail prime and tax-free money market funds. if our institutional prime or tax-free money market funds were to impose redemption fees or gates delaying the payment of redemption proceeds, or the nav of one of our government or retail prime or tax-free money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per common share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in aum, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. our revenues and profitability would be adversely affected by any reduction in aum as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. we derive substantially all our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of aum. aum may decline for various reasons. for any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin likely would decline by a greater proportion because a majority of our expenses remain fixed. factors that could decrease aum (and therefore revenues) include the following: declines in the market value of aum in client portfolios. these could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which our aum are concentrated. our aum as of january 31, 2020 were $1,218.7 billion . we cannot predict whether volatility in the markets will result in substantial or 13 table of contents sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our aum are concentrated. any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin. redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, client portfolios. these could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in client portfolios in general or in the market segments in which invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance (relative or absolute) of the client portfolios managed by invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales and increased redemptions with corresponding decreases in our revenues. failure of our client portfolios to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and other alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income, stable return accounts, and certain etfs. our revenues may decline if clients continue to shift their investments to lower fee accounts. in addition, the loss of key personnel or significant investment management professionals could reduce the attractiveness of our products to current and potential clients and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. investments in international markets . investment products that we manage may have significant investments in international markets that are subject to significant risks of loss from political, economic, diplomatic developments, currency fluctuations, social instability, changes in governmental policies, expropriation, nationalization and asset confiscation. international trading markets, particularly emerging markets, are often smaller, less liquid, less regulated and significantly more volatile than those in the developed world. poor investment performance of our products could reduce the level of our aum or affect our sales, and negatively impact our revenues and income. our investment performance, along with achieving and maintaining appropriate levels of distribution and client service, is critical to the success of our business. strong investment performance often stimulates sales of our products. poor investment performance as compared to third-party benchmarks or competitive products has in the past led, and could in the future lead, to a decrease in sales of our products and stimulate redemptions from existing products, generally lowering the overall level of aum and reducing the management fees we earn. there is no assurance that past or present investment performance in our products will be indicative of future performance. if we fail, or appear to fail, to address successfully and promptly the underlying causes of any poor investment performance, we may be unsuccessful in reversing such under performance and our future business prospects would likely be negatively affected. competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, which could reduce our profitability. the investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and financial intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. we continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in many products. investors remain attracted to lower fee passive products, which have gained and may continue to gain share at the expense of active products. we face strong competition in every market in which we operate. our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. our competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. if these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants around the world have also resulted in increased competition. in recent years there have been several instances of industry consolidation, both in the area of distributors and manufacturers of investment products. further consolidation may occur in these areas in the future. the increasing size and market influence of certain distributors of our products and of certain direct competitors may have a negative impact on our ability to compete at the same levels of profitability in the future. 14 table of contents we may not adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant declines in our revenues. if we are unable to effect appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace or our aum and revenues, our profitability, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility. certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. these redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. in addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of fixed income investments and fixed income derivatives held in various investment portfolios and other products. thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from certain fixed income products. if securities within a money market portfolio default or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its nav. although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining nav. some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. additionally, we have investments in fixed income assets, including collateralized loan obligations and seed money in fixed income funds, the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates. the manner in which interest rates are calculated could also impact our client portfolios. for example, libor, as well as other interest rate, equity, foreign exchange rate and other types of indices which are deemed to be "benchmarks," are the subject of ongoing international, national and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. some of these reforms are already effective while others are still to be implemented. the u.s. federal reserve, based on the recommendations of the new york federal reserve's alternative reference rate committee (consisting of major derivative market participants and their regulators), has begun publishing a secured overnight funding rate (sofr) which is intended to replace u.s. dollar libor, and sofr-based investment products have been issued in the u.s. proposals for alternative reference rates for other currencies have also been announced or have already begun publication. markets are slowly developing in response to these new rates and questions around liquidity in these rates and how to appropriately adjust these rates to eliminate any economic value transfer at the time of transition remain a significant concern for us and others in the marketplace. it is difficult to predict the full impact of the transition away from libor on certain derivatives and floating rate securities we hold and any other assets or liabilities (as well as contractual rights and obligations) whose value is tied to libor. the value or profitability of these products and instruments, and our costs of operations, may be adversely affected until new reference rates and fallbacks for both legacy and new products, instruments and contracts are commercially accepted. we may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. we regularly review, and from time-to-time have discussions with and engage in, potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to pursue such transactions, be successful in negotiating the required agreements, or successfully close transactions after signing such agreements. acquisitions also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if pending transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to closing or integration. following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. there can be no assurance that such sellers will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. 15 table of contents we have incurred and will continue to incur transaction and integration costs in connection with the acquisition of oppenheimerfunds and the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not offset these costs. we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant, non-recurring costs in connection with the acquisition and integration of oppenheimerfunds. there can be no assurances that the expected benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the business will be realized to offset these transaction and integration costs over time. as part of the integration activities for the oppenheimerfunds business, the company has identified a matter that involves a possible loss contingency related to the operations of the acquired business. see part ii, see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data - note 19, "commitments and contingencies" for additional information. in connection with the acquisition of oppenheimerfunds, we issued perpetual preferred stock having a value of approximately $4 billion, which could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital and may limit our ability to fund other priorities. in connection with the acquisition of oppenheimerfunds, invesco issued approximately $4 billion of 5.9% fixed rate perpetual preferred stock to certain of oppenheimerfunds' former shareholders. this issuance may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; may restrict our ability to pay dividends to holders of common shares in certain circumstances; may increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; and will require a significant portion of cash flow from operations to make required dividend payments to preferred shareholders. in connection with the acquisition of oppenheimerfunds, we issued approximately 81.9 million common shares, which could adversely impact our trading price upon resale of those common shares. we issued approximately 81.9 million common shares in connection with the acquisition, most of which are held by massachusetts mutual life insurance company (massmutual). the common shares held by massmutual are subject to an agreement not to sell those common shares for a period of two years following completion of the acquisition, subject to early termination, as well as to certain limitations on resales. however, massmutual may in the future sell these common shares in the open market or through secondary offerings. if massmutual were to sell its equity stake in invesco, or express an intention to sell the stake, that action could have a significant impact on our common share trading price. massmutual has the ability to significantly influence our business and massmutual's interest in our business may be different from that of other shareholders. massmutual is entitled to designate an individual to serve on our board so long as it beneficially owns at least (i) 10% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock or (ii) (x) 5% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock and (y) $2.0 billion in aggregate liquidation preference of our series a preferred shares. additionally, we are not permitted to take certain actions without the prior written approval of massmutual, including making certain changes in our capital structure or our organizational documents, adopting a shareholder rights plan or effectuating certain business combination transactions. massmutual's level of ownership and influence may make some transactions (such as those involving mergers, material share issuances or changes in control) more difficult or impossible without the support of massmutual, which in turn could adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock or prevent our shareholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of our common stock. the interests of massmutual may conflict with the interests of other shareholders. we depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access to our information technology systems or facilities, or those of third parties with which we do business, including as a result of cyber-attacks, could result in significant limits on our ability to conduct our operations and activities, costs and reputational damage. we are highly dependent upon the use of various proprietary and third-party information and security technology, software applications and other technology systems to operate our business. we are also dependent on the effectiveness of our information and cyber security infrastructure, policies, procedures and capabilities to protect our computer and telecommunications systems and the data that reside on or are transmitted through them. we use our technology to, among other things, manage and trade portfolio investments, support our other operations, obtain securities pricing information, process client transactions, protect the privacy of clients', employees' and business partners' data and provide reports and other customer services to the clients of the funds we manage. any inaccuracies, delays, systems failures or security breaches in these and other processes could disrupt our business operations, subject us to client, employee or business 16 table of contents partner dissatisfaction and losses, subject us to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions and/or subject us to reputational harm. our computer, communications, data processing, networks, backup, business continuity or other operating, information or technology systems and facilities, including those that we outsource to other providers, may fail to operate properly or become disabled, overloaded or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control. further, third-party service providers may have limited indemnification obligations to us regarding cyber-incidents. in recent years, several financial services firms suffered cyber-attacks launched both domestically and from abroad, resulting in the disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of confidential data, litigation and regulatory enforcement actions and reputational harm. cyber-security incidents and cyber-attacks have been occurring globally at a more frequent and severe level. our status as a global financial institution and the nature of our client base may enhance the risk that we are targeted by such cyber-threats. although we seek to take protective measures, including measures to effectively secure information through system security technology, and seek to continually monitor and develop our systems to protect our technology infrastructure and data from misappropriation or corruption, our technology systems may still be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other events that have a security impact, such as an external hacker attack by one or more cyber criminals or an authorized employee or vendor causing us to release confidential information inadvertently or through malfeasance, or lose temporarily or permanently data or applications or systems, which could materially harm our operations and reputation. the third parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries and technology infrastructure and service providers, are also susceptible to the foregoing risks (including regarding the third parties with which they are similarly interconnected or on which they otherwise rely), and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom we or they are interconnected or conduct business. breach of our technology systems could damage our reputation and could result in the unauthorized disclosure or modification or loss of sensitive or confidential information (including client data); unauthorized disclosure, modification or loss of proprietary information relating to our business; inability to process client or company transactions and processes; breach and termination of client contracts; liability for stolen assets, information or identity; remediation costs to repair damage caused by the breach, including damage to systems and recovery of lost data; additional security costs to mitigate against future incidents; regulatory actions (including fines and penalties, which could be material) and litigation costs resulting from the incident. such consequences could result in material financial loss and have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of key individuals or a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. retaining highly skilled investment management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain our clients. the market for skilled investment management professionals is highly competitive. the market for investment professionals and other key personnel is at times characterized by the movement of these professionals among different firms. our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals and other key personnel with a supportive professional working environment and compensation and benefits (including equity and other forms of deferred compensation) that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. however, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of significant investment professionals or other key personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our net revenues and hinder our growth. we sell substantially all of our retail investment products through a variety of third party financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, fund supermarkets, regional broker-dealers, insurance companies, banks and financial planners in north america, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and supermarket platforms in europe and asia. no single one of these intermediaries is material to our business. increasing competition for these distribution channels could nevertheless cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. following the financial crisis, there has been consolidation of banks and broker-dealers, particularly in the u.s., and a limited amount of migration of brokers and financial advisors away from major banks to independent firms focused largely on providing 17 table of contents advice. if these changes continue, our distribution costs could increase as a percentage of our revenues generated. additionally, particularly outside of the u.s., certain of the third party intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. investors, particularly in the institutional market, rely on external consultants and other third parties for advice on the choice of investment manager. these consultants and third parties tend to exert a significant degree of influence over their clients' choices, and they may favor a competitor of invesco as better meeting their particular clients' needs. there is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. similarly, particularly in the united states, certain distributors have substantially reduced the number of investment funds they make available to their customers. if a material portion of our distributors were to substantially narrow their product offerings, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. more broadly, in both retail and institutional channels, intermediaries (distribution firms and consultants) are seeking to reduce the number of investment management firms they do business with. while this offers opportunities to the company to have broader and deeper relationships with firms that continue to do business with us, it also poses risks of additional lost business if a particular entity chooses to stop or significantly reduce its business relationship with the company. any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources and the consultant community do to any of the above-described factors would impair our ability to sell our products, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. we may be unable to develop new products and services and the development of new products and services may expose us to additional costs or operational risk. our financial performance depends, in part, on the company's ability to develop, market and manage new investment products and services. the development and introduction of new products and services requires continued innovative efforts on our part and may require significant time and resources as well as ongoing support and investment. substantial risk and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of new products and services, including the implementation of new and appropriate operational controls and procedures, shifting client and market preferences, the introduction of competing products or services and compliance with regulatory requirements. new products often must be in the market place for three or more years in order to generate track records required to attract significant aum inflows. increasingly clients and intermediaries are looking to investment mangers to be able to deliver investment outcomes tailored to particular circumstances and needs, and to augment traditional investment management products and services with additional value-added services. the company has sought to make investment designed to enable it to meet these evolving expectation, which the company believes it will need to meet in in order to maintain and grow its business. a failure to continue to innovate to introduce successful new products and services or to manage effectively the risks associated with such products and services may impact our market share relevance and may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. our financial condition and liquidity would be adversely affected by losses on our seed capital and co-investments . the company has investments in managed investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including, but not limited to equities, fixed income products, commodities, derivatives, and similar financial instruments, private equity and real estate. investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks, or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed capital and co-investments. a reduction in the value of these investments may adversely affect our results of operations or liquidity. as of december 31, 2019 , the company had approximately $1,074.4 million in seed capital and co-investments, including direct investments in consolidated investment products (cip). failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or investment guidelines could result in costs or correction, damage awards or regulatory fines and penalties against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. many of the investment management agreements under which we manage assets or provide products or services specify investment guidelines or requirements, such as adherence to investment restrictions or limits, that we are required to observe in the provision of our services. laws and regulations impose similar requirements for certain client portfolios (such as registered funds). a failure to comply with these guidelines or requirements could result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts. regulators likewise may commence enforcement actions for violations of such requirements, which could lead to fines and penalties against the company. any such effects could cause our revenues and profitability to decline. we maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to seek to prevent, detect and correct such errors. when an error is detected, a 18 table of contents payment will typically be made into the applicable client account to correct it. significant errors for which we are responsible could impact our reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time. substantially all our revenues are derived from investment management agreements. investment management agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days' notice. agreements with u.s. registered funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the event of an assignment (as defined in the investment company act of 1940, as amended), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund's board of trustees or directors, as required by law. in addition, the boards of trustees or directors of certain other fund accounts generally may terminate these investment management agreements upon written notice for any reason. open-end registered fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of aum, generally on short notice. any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or aum, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. if our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income. our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and our good reputation is critical to our business. our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries, investigations or findings of wrongdoing, intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of our products and services in advertising materials, public relations information, social media or other external communications, operational failures (including cyber breaches), employee dishonesty or other misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or eventually satisfactorily addressed. our business also requires us to continuously manage actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of other clients or those of invesco. the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected if we fail - or appear to fail - to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address and manage these risks, but this task can be complex and difficult, and if our procedures and controls fail, our reputation could be damaged. any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our aum, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. the failure or negative performance of products offered by competitors may have a negative impact on similar invesco products irrespective of our performance. many competitors offer similar products to those offered by us and the failure or negative performance of competitors' products could lead to a loss of confidence in similar invesco products, irrespective of the performance of our products. any loss of confidence in a product type could lead to withdrawals, redemptions and liquidity issues in such products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. the soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us or the client portfolios we manage. financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. we, and the client portfolios that we manage, have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, clearing organizations, hedge funds and other institutions. many of these transactions expose us or such client portfolios to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty. while we regularly conduct assessments of such risk posed by counterparties, the risk of non-performance by such parties is subject to sudden swings in the financial and credit markets. such non-performance could produce a financial loss for the company or the client portfolios we manage. 19 table of contents our ability to maintain our credit ratings and to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors. our access to the capital markets depends significantly on our credit ratings. we have received credit ratings of a2/stable, bbb+/stable and a-/positive from moody's investor services ("moody's"), standard &amp; poor's ratings service ("s&amp;p"), and fitch ratings ("fitch"), respectively, as of the date hereof. we believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to the fact that our revenues are exposed to equity market volatility and the potential impact from regulatory changes to the industry. additionally, the rating agencies could decide to downgrade the entire investment management industry, based on their perspective of future growth and solvency. material deterioration of these factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit ratings, thereby limiting our ability to access additional financing. management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings. our credit facility borrowing rates are tied to our credit ratings. a reduction in our long-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, could limit our access to the capital markets and may result in outflows thereby reducing aum and revenues. volatility in global finance markets may also affect our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so. if we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. as of december 31, 2019 , we had outstanding total debt of $2,080.3 million , excluding debt of cip, and total equity attributable to invesco ltd. of $13,862.5 million . the amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient assets or liquidity to repay such amounts in full. our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios. the credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries' ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. the breach of any covenant would result in a default under the credit facility. in the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if any indebtedness under the credit facility were subject to accelerated repayment and if we had at that time a significant amount of outstanding debt under the credit facility, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full. performance fees may increase revenue and earnings volatility. a portion of the company's revenues is derived from performance fees on investment advisory agreements. performance fees represented $102.2 million , or 1.7% , of total operating revenues for the year ended december 31, 2019 . in most cases, performance fees are based on relative or absolute investment returns, although in some cases they are based on achieving specific service standards. generally, the company is entitled to performance fees only if the returns on the related portfolios exceed agreed-upon periodic or cumulative return targets. if these targets are not exceeded, performance fees for that period will not be earned and, if targets are based on cumulative returns, the company may not earn performance fees in future periods. performance fees will vary from period to period in relation to volatility in investment returns and the timing of revenue recognition, causing our earnings to be more volatile. distribution of earnings of our subsidiaries may be subject to limitations, including net capital requirements. substantially all our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries. as a result, our cash flow and our ability to fund operations are dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of earnings, intercompany loans or other payments by our subsidiaries to us. any payments to us by our subsidiaries could be subject to statutory or contractual restrictions and are contingent upon our subsidiaries ' earnings and business considerations. for example, certain of our subsidiaries are required under applicable laws and regulations to maintain appropriate levels of capital. such requirements may change from time-to-time as additional guidance is released based on a variety of factors, 20 table of contents including balance sheet composition, assessment of risk exposures and governance and review from regulators. these and other similar provisions of applicable laws and regulations may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. all of our regulated eu and uk subsidiaries are subject to consolidated capital requirements under applicable eu and uk requirements, including those arising from the eu's capital requirements directive and the uk's internal capital adequacy assessment process (icaap), and capital is maintained within this european sub-group to satisfy these regulations. we meet these requirements in part by holding cash and cash equivalents. this retained cash can be used for general business purposes in the european sub-group in the countries where it is located. due to the capital restrictions, the ability to transfer cash between certain jurisdictions may be limited. in addition, transfers of cash between international jurisdictions may have adverse tax consequences. as of december 31, 2019 , the company's minimum regulatory capital requirement was $753.6 million . complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the european sub-group. as a result of corporate restructuring and regulatory requirements, certain of these subsidiaries may be required to limit their dividends to the ultimate parent company, invesco ltd. our financial condition or liquidity could be adversely affected if certain of our subsidiaries are unable to distribute funds to us. we are exposed to a number of risks arising from our international operations. we operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the united states. we have offices in numerous countries and sponsor many cross border and local proprietary funds that are domiciled outside the united states and may face difficulties in managing, operating and marketing our international operations. our international operations expose us to the political and economic consequences of operating in foreign jurisdictions and subject us to expropriation risks, expatriation controls and potential adverse tax consequences. since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the united states and have functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. the largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our aum, is presently denominated in u.s. dollars. however, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the united states whose functional currencies are not the u.s. dollar. as a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. consequently, significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the uk pound sterling, euro, or japanese yen, among other currencies, could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results. terrorist activity and the continued threat of terrorism, increased geopolitical unrest, natural or man-made disasters could adversely affect the global economy or specific international, regional and domestic markets, which may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. terrorist activity and the continued threat of terrorism, acts of civil or international unrest or hostility, natural disasters, pandemic disease and man-made disasters, within the united states and abroad, as well as ongoing military and other actions and heightened security measures in response to these types of threats, may cause significant volatility and declines in the global markets and reduced economic activity. (for example, the spread of a new strain of coronavirus at the end of 2019 may impact global markets in asia. the market reaction may deepen further if the virus spreads.) any of these events that adversely affect the global economy, capital markets or specific international, regional or domestic markets may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline and may have a materially negative impact on our financial results. 21 table of contents if we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we believe our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems should mitigate adverse impacts. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational problems with regard to particular areas of our operations. further, as we strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. although we seek to assess regularly and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to recover successfully should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. failure to establish adequate controls and risk management policies, the circumvention of controls and policies or fraud could have an adverse effect on our reputation and financial position. although we seek to foster a positive workplace culture, have adopted a comprehensive risk management process and continue to enhance various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor and manage risks, we cannot ensure that our workplace culture or such controls, procedures, policies and systems will successfully identify and manage internal and external risks to our business. we are subject to the risk that our employees, contractors or other third parties may deliberately or recklessly seek to circumvent established controls to commit fraud (including through cyber breaches) or act in ways that are inconsistent with our controls, policies and procedures. persistent or repeated attempts involving conflicts of interests, circumvention of policies and controls or fraud could have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, could lead to costly regulatory inquiries, fines and/or sanctions and may cause our aum, revenue and earning to decline. our business is vulnerable to deficiencies and failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to breaches and errors or reputational harm, resulting in loss of customers or claims against us or our subsidiaries. in addition to investment management, our services include fund administration, sales, distribution, marketing, shareholder servicing and trust, custody and other fiduciary services. in order to be competitive and comply with our agreements, we must properly perform our fund and portfolio administration and related responsibilities, including portfolio recordkeeping and accounting, security pricing, corporate actions, investment restrictions compliance, daily net asset value computations, account reconciliations and required distributions to fund shareholders. the ability to consistently and reliably obtain accurate securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and clients in accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. certain types of securities may experience liquidity constraints that would require increased use of fair value pricing, which is dependent on certain subjective judgments that have the potential to be challenged. any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports or other breaches and errors and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate clients or distributors and potentially give rise to claims against us. our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party service providers. certain of these processes involve a degree of manual input, and thus problems could occur from time-to-time due to human error. our failure to properly perform and monitor our operations or our otherwise suffering deficiencies and failures in these systems or service functions could result in material financial loss or costs, regulatory actions, breach of client contracts, reputational harm or legal claims and liability, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. the failure of one of our third party service providers or other key vendors to fulfill its obligations could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or business, which may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. we depend on third party service providers and other key vendors for various fund administration, accounting, custody, risk analytics, market data, market indices and transfer agent roles, and other distribution and operational needs. if our 22 table of contents third party service providers or other key vendors fail to fulfill their obligations to us, it could lead to operational and regulatory problems, including with respect to certain of our products, which could result in losses, enforcement actions, or reputational harm and may cause our aum, revenue and earnings to decline. the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we have goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to annual impairment reviews. we also have definite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to impairment testing if indicators of impairment are identified. goodwill and intangible assets totaled $8,509.4 million and $7,358.3 million , respectively, at december 31, 2019 . we may not realize the value of such assets. we perform impairment reviews of the book values of these assets on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. a variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related assets would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period. see item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - critical accounting policies - goodwill and - intangibles, for additional details of our impairment analysis process. we operate in an industry that is highly regulated in many countries, and any enforcement action or adverse changes in the laws or regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to require registration or licenses, limit or restrict our business activities, conduct examinations, risk assessments, investigations and capital adequacy reviews and impose remedial programs to address perceived deficiencies. as a result of regulatory oversight, we could face requirements which negatively impact the way in which we conduct business, increase compliance costs and/or impose additional capital requirements. our regulators likewise have the authority to commence enforcement actions which could lead to sanctions up to and including the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel or the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees. further, regulators across borders could coordinate actions against us as issues arise resulting in impacts on our business in multiple jurisdictions. judgments or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities, or in private litigation against us, could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues. any of the effects discussed above could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. a substantial portion of the products and services we offer are regulated by the securities and exchange commission (sec), financial industry regulatory authority (finra), the commodities future trading commission (cftc), the national futures association (nfa) and the texas department of banking in the united states and by the financial conduct authority (fca) and the prudential regulatory authority (pra) in the united kingdom. subsidiaries operating in the european union (eu) are subject to various eu directives, which generally are implemented by member state national legislation and by eu regulations. our operations elsewhere in the world are regulated by similar regulatory organizations. the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen a significant increase in regulation in recent years. various changes in laws and regulations have been enacted or otherwise implemented in multiple jurisdictions globally in response to the crisis in the financial markets that began in 2007. various other proposals remain under consideration by legislators, regulators, other government officials and other public policy commentators. certain enacted provisions and certain other proposals are potentially far reaching and, depending upon their implementation, could have a material impact on our business. while certain of these provisions appear to address perceived problems in the banking sector, some will or may be applied more broadly and affect other financial services companies, including investment managers. while invesco does not believe that the these post-crisis developments have or will fundamentally change the investment management industry or cause invesco to reconsider its basic strategy, certain provisions have required, and other provisions will or may require, us to change or impose new limitations on the manner in which we conduct business; they also have increased regulatory burdens and related compliance costs, and will or may continue to do so. more broadly, we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. to the extent that existing regulations are interpreted or amended or future regulations are adopted in a manner that reduces the sale, or increases the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affects the investment performance of our products or impacts our product mix, our 23 table of contents aggregate aum and our revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, regulatory changes have imposed and may continue to impose additional costs or capital requirements, which could negatively impact our profitability or return on equity. the eu has promulgated or is considering various new or revised directives pertaining to financial services, including investment managers. such directives are progressing at various stages, and generally have been, are being or will or would be implemented by national legislation in member states. ongoing changes in the eu's regulatory framework applicable to our business, including changes related to brexit and any other changes in the composition of the eu's member states, may add further complexity to our global risks and operations. developments under regulatory changes will or may include, without limitation: new or increased capital requirements and related regulation. limitations on holdings of certain commodities under proposed regulations of the cftc which could result in capacity constraints for our products that employ commodities as part of their investment strategy. potential limitations on the ability of our u.s. registered funds to enter into derivatives transactions under regulations of the sec. regulations impacting the standard of care a financial adviser owes to its clients including the sec's best interests standard. other changes to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products. in 2015, the fca undertook a study of the asset management industry and released their final report in june 2017. the report highlighted a number of specific industry issues and proposed a number of remedies that will take place in a number of stages, including: changes to governance, changes to fee structures to provide clients with increased transparency, improved disclosure in client documentation, improved ability for retail clients to change share classes, changes to pension pooling and investment consultant regulations in the institutional segment and new requirements that fund sponsors evaluate the degree to which their funds provide value to fund shareholders. the markets in financial instruments directive ii (mifid ii) in the eu, effective in january 2018, seeks to promote a single market for wholesale and retail transactions in financial instruments. mifid ii addresses the conduct of business rules for intermediaries providing investment services and the effective, efficient and safe operation of financial markets. key elements of mifid ii are the extent to which retrocessions may be paid and the use of trading commissions to fund research. beginning in january 2018, the company has absorbed external research costs incurred for mifid ii impacting funds and client accounts in europe. while the foregoing provisions only impact the eu, client-driven competitive pressures may cause an expansion of these principles to other business regions in which we operate, including the united states. forthcoming eu regulations pertaining to integrating environmental, social and governance (esg) topics may materially impact the asset management industry in member states that adopt such legislation. for example, the eu's recent action plan on financing sustainable growth includes initiatives to integrate esg into the financial system, including such areas as mifid2, ucits and aifmd regulations. an increased focus on liquidity in funds (including fixed income funds), an example of which is the sec's rules with respect to liquidity and liquidity risk management applicable to certain types of registered u.s. funds that took effect in 2018. increased requirements to provide regulators and investors more granular detail regarding our products and services, including the sec's reporting modernization rule applicable to certain types of registered u.s. funds that took effect in 2018. regulations pertaining to the privacy of data with respect to clients, employees and business partners. the introduction of the eu's general data protection regulation (gdpr) in 2018 strengthened privacy rules for individuals within the eu, and greatly increased penalties for non-compliance. the gdpr has also influenced direction on privacy regulations outside of the eu, most recently the state of california adopted the california consumer privacy act (ccpa) in january 2020 granting california consumers more control over the use of their personal information by organizations doing business with them. a failure to comply can result in fines levied by the california attorney general or private rights of action by consumers. looking forward, various other u.s. states are seeking to establish similar laws to ccpa, and privacy laws are being updated and strengthened in various jurisdictions globally, such as canada, india, china, and hong kong. increased regulatory scrutiny on operations of private capital funds. requirements pertaining to the trading of securities and other financial instruments, such as swaps and other derivatives, including certain provisions of the dodd-frank act and european market infrastructure regulation; these include significant reporting requirements, designated trading venues, mandated central 24 table of contents clearing arrangements, restrictions on proprietary trading by certain financial institutions, other conduct requirements and potentially new taxes or similar fees. phase out of the libor benchmark, which will impact interest payables or receivables on certain portfolio investments. heightened regulatory examinations and inspections, including enforcement reviews, and a more aggressive posture regarding commencing enforcement proceedings resulting in fines, penalties and additional remedial activities to firms and to individuals. without limiting the generality of the foregoing, regulators in the united states and the united kingdom have taken and can be expected to continue to take a more aggressive posture on bringing enforcement proceedings. enhanced licensing and qualification requirements for key personnel, including the united kingdom senior managers and certification regime, which became effective in december 2019. guidelines regarding the structure and components of fund manager compensation and other additional rules and regulations and disclosure requirements. certain provisions impose additional disclosure burdens on public companies. certain proposals could impose requirements for more widespread disclosures of compensation to highly-paid individuals. depending upon the scope of any such requirements, invesco could be disadvantaged in retaining key employees vis- -vis private companies, including hedge fund sponsors. strengthening standards regarding various ethical matters, including compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act, the uk bribery act and anti-money-laundering laws and regulations. regulations promulgated to address perceptions that the asset management industry, or certain of its entities or activities, pose systematic risks to the financial system. regulations promulgated to protect personal data and address risks of fraud, malfeasance or other adverse consequences stemming from cyber attacks. other changes impacting the identity or the organizational structure of regulators with supervisory authority over invesco. we cannot at this time predict the full impact of potential legal and regulatory changes or possible enforcement proceedings on our business. such changes have imposed, and may continue to impose, new compliance costs and/or capital requirements or impact invesco in other ways that could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. moreover, certain legal or regulatory changes could require us to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur other new constraints or costs, including the investment of significant management time and resources in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. in recent years, certain regulatory developments have also added downward pressures regarding fee levels. to the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of our products and services or cause or contribute to reduced sales or increased redemptions of our products or services, impair the investment performance of our products or services or impact our product mix, our aum and results of operations might be adversely affected. civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions could adversely affect our aum and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business. invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings, including civil litigation and governmental investigations and enforcement actions. these actions can arise from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory reviews. as a global company with investment products registered in numerous countries and subject to the jurisdiction of one or more regulators in each country, at any given time, our business operations may be subject to review, investigation or disciplinary action. for example, in the united states, united kingdom and other jurisdictions in which the company operates, governmental authorities regularly make inquiries, hold investigations and administer market conduct examinations with respect to the company's compliance with applicable laws and regulations. lawsuits or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of these inquiries may in the future be filed against the company and related entities and individuals in the united states, united kingdom and other jurisdictions in which the company and its affiliates operate. see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 19 -- " commitments and contingencies , for additional information. judgments in civil litigation or findings of wrongdoing by regulatory or governmental authorities against us could affect our reputation, increase our costs of doing business and/or negatively impact our revenues, any of which could have a material negative impact on our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. 25 table of contents insurance may not be available at a reasonable cost to protect us from liability. we face the inherent risk of liability related to claims from clients, third-party vendors or others, actions taken by regulatory agencies and costs and losses associated with operations failures (which could include cyber incidents). to help protect against these risks, we purchase insurance in amounts, and against potential liabilities, that we consider appropriate, where such insurance is available at prices we deem reasonable. there can be no assurance, however, that a claim or claims will be covered by insurance or, if covered, will not exceed coverage limits, or that an insurer will meet its obligations regarding coverage, or that coverage will continue to be available on a cost effective basis. insurance costs are impacted by market conditions and the risk profile of the insured, and may increase significantly over relatively short periods. in addition, certain insurance coverage may not be available or may only be available at prohibitive costs. renewals of insurance policies may expose us to additional costs through higher premiums or the assumption of higher deductibles or co-insurance liability. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions . there is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation . the international tax environment continues to change as a result of both coordinated actions by governments and unilateral measures designed by individual countries, both intended to tackle concerns over base erosion and profit shifting (beps) and perceived international tax avoidance techniques. the recommendations of the beps project led by the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) and the anti-tax avoidance directive (atad) from the european union (eu) are involved in much of the coordinated activity, including: in 2018, the eu introduced mandatory disclosure rules (dac6) requiring disclosure to tax authorities of cross-border arrangements entered into by taxpayers that fall within certain, broadly defined hallmarks beginning in july 1, 2020 . there also are separate transitional rules that require separate reporting for any disclosable transactions occurring after june 25, 2018 . on july 1, 2018, the oecd enacted the multilateral convention to implement tax treaty related measures to prevent base erosion and profit shifting (the multilateral instrument or mli). the mli implements several beps initiatives: action 2 - hybrid mismatch arrangements; action 6- treaty abuse; action 7 - definition of permanent establishment ; and action 14- mutual agreement procedures (map) as well as arbitration . the oecd has adopted a global common reporting standard for the automatic exchange of financial information among participating countries ( crs ), aimed at ensuring that persons with financial assets located outside of their tax residence country pay required taxes. in many cases, intergovernmental agreements between the participating countries will govern implementation of the new crs rules. crs is being implemented over a multi-year period and we will continue to monitor the implementing regulations and corresponding intergovernmental agreements to determine our requirements. the oecd has also undertaken beps 2.0 focused on addressing the tax challenges of the digitalization of the economy. this project may impact all multinational businesses by allocating a greater share of taxing rights to countries where consumers are located regardless of the current physical presence of a business, and by implementing a global minimum tax. there is significant uncertainty regarding such proposals, including that a few eu countries have unilaterally enacted or proposed a tax on digital services ahead of any eu wide proposal. the oecd has also launched an analytical database on individual multinationals and affiliates ( adima ), a database containing public information on the physical and digital locations of corporations (including revenue, profit, income tax and number of employees. bermuda has recently adopted economic substance regulations to comply with the eu code of conduct for business taxation and tax policies which will require invesco ltd. to file annual declarations beginning june 2020 demonstrating economic substance within bermuda. as with any global implementation process there are concerns about potential lack of consistency in the local application of these items . some of the recommendations are complex while others contain optional routes , thereby increasing the likelihood of only partial or limited implementation . although the timing and methods of implementation vary , several jurisdictions have enacted legislation that is aligned with , and in some cases exceeds the scope of , the oecd's recommendations . this could lead to increased uncertainty with tax positions as well as 26 table of contents increase the potential for double taxation. we continually assess the impact of various u . . federal, state and foreign legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, which could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal, state or foreign taxes. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company , including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our future results of operations, financial condition or liquidity . on june 21, 2018, in south dakota v . wayfair, inc. (wayfair), the u.s. supreme court overruled prior court decisions that had precluded states from imposing a sales and use tax collection obligation on sellers unless they had a physical presence in the state . the wayfair decision as expected, has led to increased state nexus expansion as more states turn to economic nexus threshold laws and away from physical presence nexus tests . the tax cuts and jobs act (the 2017 tax act) enacted on december 22, 2017, significantly reformed the taxation of business entities and included changes to u.s. federal tax rates, significant additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, and migrating from a "worldwide" system of taxation to a territorial system . regulations and guidance implementing the changes continue to be issued and therefore the ultimate impact of the 2017 tax act on our business and financial condition remains to be determined . on october 21 , 2016 , the united states treasury and the irs published final and temporary regulations under section 385 of the internal revenue code ("385 regulations") that target the inbound financing of a foreign-parented multinational group's u.s . subsidiaries. there continues to be no immediate impacts to the company's financial position as a result of the application of the 385 regulations, however, in the future they could limit our ability to efficiently finance or otherwise choose between debt and equity transactions with our u.s. subsidiaries. examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries are subject to both income and non-income based taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions which are subject to current and potentially future tax audits in these jurisdictions. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes (and, in certain cases, interest, fines or penalties). we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. the european commission continues to investigate certain tax rulings and beneficial regimes provided by member states to particular taxpayers that it believes may have violated the eu restriction on state aid. the investigation was triggered by the oecd / beps action plan as well as the eu's own agenda to tackle aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance . there is considerable uncertainty with the approach being taken, including retroactive application (10 year period), conflicts with oecd transfer pricing guidelines and implications to bilateral tax treaties. while the company does not believe it has received state aid, and is not a party to any investigation, due to the uncertainty of the process and retroactive nature of the assessments any potential future findings could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our future results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to shareholders. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a company incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda (companies act). the companies act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. under bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances described in the following paragraph. however, directors and officers may owe duties to a company's creditors in cases of impending insolvency. directors and officers of a bermuda 27 table of contents company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. if a director or officer of a bermuda company is found to have breached such director's duties to that company, the director may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of bermuda. however, the bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow english case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to commence an action in a company's name against the directors and officers to remedy a wrong done to the company where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the company's corporate power or is illegal or would result in the violation of the company's memorandum of association or bye-laws. furthermore, consideration would be given by the court to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of shareholders than actually approved it. under our third amended and restated bye-laws (bye-laws), each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against the company or any of our officers, directors or employees. the waiver applies to any action taken by a director, officer or employee, or the failure of such person to take any action, in the performance of his or her duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the director, officer or employee. this waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our directors, officers and employees unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. our bye-laws also provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to the company other than in respect of his or her own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the companies act. because we are incorporated in bermuda, it may be difficult for shareholders to serve process or enforce judgments against us or our directors and officers. the company is organized under the laws of bermuda. in addition, certain of our officers and directors reside in countries outside the united states. a substantial portion of the company's assets and the assets of these officers and directors are or may be located outside the united states. investors may have difficulty effecting service of process within the united states on our directors and officers who reside outside the united states or recovering against the company or these directors and officers on judgments of u.s. courts based on civil liabilities provisions of the u.s. federal securities laws, even though the company has appointed an agent in the united states to receive service of process. further, it may not be possible in bermuda or in countries other than the united states where the company has assets to enforce court judgments obtained in the united states against the company based on the civil liability provisions of u.s. federal or state securities laws. in addition, there is some doubt as to whether the courts of bermuda and other countries would recognize or enforce judgments of u.s. courts obtained against the company or our directors or officers based on the civil liability provisions of the u.s. federal or state securities laws or would hear actions against the company or those persons based on those laws. we have been advised by our legal advisors in bermuda that the united states and bermuda do not currently have a treaty providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. some remedies available under the laws of the united states or the states therein, including some remedies available under the u.s. federal securities laws, may not be allowed in bermuda courts because they may be found to be contrary to bermuda public policy. therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the united states based on civil liability, whether or not based solely on u.s. federal or state securities laws, would not automatically be enforceable in bermuda. similarly, those judgments may not be enforceable in other countries other than the united states. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or to obtain majority representation on our board of directors without the consent of our board. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares under such circumstances. 28 table of contents specifically, our bye-laws contain the following provisions that may impede or delay an unsolicited takeover of the company: we are prohibited from engaging, under certain circumstances, in a business combination (as defined in our bye-laws) with any interested shareholder (as defined in our bye-laws) for three years following the date that the shareholder became an interested shareholder; our board of directors, without further shareholder action, is permitted by our bye-laws to issue preference shares, in one or more series, and determine by resolution any designations, preferences, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions, or special or relative rights of an additional series. the rights of preferred shareholders may supersede the rights of common shareholders; shareholders may only remove directors for cause (defined in our bye-laws to mean willful misconduct or gross negligence which is materially injurious to the company, fraud or embezzlement, or a conviction of, or a plea of guilty or no contest to, a felony); our board of directors is authorized to expand its size and fill vacancies; and shareholders cannot act by written consent unless the consent is unanimous. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the company is primarily exposed to market risk in the form of aum market price risk, securities market risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk. aum market price risk the company's investment management revenues are comprised of fees based on the value of aum. declines in the market prices of equity and fixed income securities, commodities and derivatives, or other similar financial instruments held in client portfolios could cause revenues to decline because of lower investment management fees by: causing the value of aum to decrease. causing the returns realized on aum to decrease (impacting performance fees). causing clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments in markets that they perceive to offer greater opportunity and that the company does not serve. causing clients to rebalance assets away from investments that the company manages into investments that the company does not manage. 70 table of contents causing clients to reallocate assets away from products that earn higher revenues into products that earn lower revenues. underperformance of client accounts relative to competing products could exacerbate these factors. assuming the revenue yield on aum for the year remains unchanged, a 10% decline in the average aum for the year would result in a corresponding decline in revenue. certain expenses, including distribution and compensation expenses, may not vary in proportion with the changes in the market value of aum. as such, the impact on operating margin or net income of a decline in the market values of aum may be greater or less than the percentage decline in the market value of aum. securities market risk the company's exposure to market risk from financial instruments measured at fair value arises from its investments and also from its contingent consideration liability. the following table summarizes the impact of a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values or the market inputs contributing to the fair value of these financial instruments: december 31, 2019 $ in millions fair value fair value assuming 10% increase fair value assuming 10% decrease equity investments (a) 432.5 475.8 389.3 total assets measured at fair value exposed to market risk 432.5 475.8 389.3 direct investments in cip (b) 610.6 671.7 549.5 contingent consideration liability (c) (60.2 ) (66.2 ) (54.2 ) ____________ (a) if such a 10% increase or decrease in fair values were to occur, the change attributable to $432.5 million of these equity investments would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our pre-tax earnings. at december 31, 2019 , $192.4 million of these equity investments are held to hedge economically certain deferred compensation plans in which the company participates. in addition to holding equity investments, in 2017, the company purchased a total return swap to economically hedge certain deferred compensation plans. the notional value of the total return swap at december 1, 2019 was $177.0 million . the company recognizes as compensation expense the appreciation or depreciation of the compensation liability over the award's vesting period in proportion to the vested amount of the award. the company immediately recognizes the appreciation or depreciation of these investments, which is included in other gains and losses. this creates a timing difference between the recognition of the compensation expense and the investment gain or loss impacting net income, which will reverse and will offset to zero over the life of the award at the end of the multi-year vesting period. (b) these represent invesco's direct investments in investment products that are consolidated. upon consolidation, these direct investments are eliminated, and the assets and liabilities of the cip are consolidated in the consolidated balance sheet, together with a noncontrolling interest balance representing the portion of the cip owned by third parties. in addition, in 2018, the company entered into total return swap agreements with respect to certain etfs. through the total return swap agreements, the company holds an indirect interest in the etfs. at december 31, 2019, the aggregate notional value of the total return swaps was $145.9 million . if a 10% increase or decrease in the fair values of invesco's direct investments in cip and total return swap instruments were to occur, it would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our net income attributable to invesco ltd. (c) during 2015, the company acquired investment management contracts from deutsche bank. this liability represents the purchase price, which was comprised solely of contingent consideration payable in future periods and is linked to future revenues generated from the contracts. in connection with the oppenheimerfunds acquisition (see note 2 , business combinations ), invesco acquired a contingent consideration liability related to historical oppenheimerfunds transactions. the liability is contingent upon the attainment of certain revenue growth objectives during 2019 and 2020. additionally, the company made other digital wealth acquisitions during 2019, which resulted in a contingent consideration liability linked to sales targets during 2020, 2021 and 2022. the contingent consideration liabilities referenced above were recorded at fair value at each respective acquisition date and subsequent changes in the fair value are recorded in other gains and 71 table of contents losses, net in the consolidated statements of income. if a 10% increase or decrease in the fair value of the contingent consideration liability were to occur, it would result in a corresponding increase or decrease in our net income attributable to invesco ltd. cash balances invested in money market funds of $620.9 million have been excluded from the table above. these are valued under the market approach at the net asset value of the underlying funds, which is maintained at $1. assets held for policyholders of $10,835.6 million have also been excluded from the table above. the entity holds assets that are managed for its clients on its balance sheet with an equal and offsetting liability to the policyholders, which is linked to the value of the investments. the investments and the policyholder payables held by this business are carried in the consolidated balance sheets as separate account assets and liabilities at fair value in accordance with asc topic 944, financial services - insurance. changes in fair value are recorded and offset to zero in the consolidated statements of income in other operating revenues. increases or decreases in the fair value of these investments will therefore have no impact to our pre-tax earnings. interest rate risk interest rate risk relates to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its external debt and cash and cash equivalent investments. on december 31, 2019 , the interest rates on 100.0% of the company's borrowings were fixed for a weighted average period of 7.9 years, and the company had a balance of zero on its floating rate credit facility. the interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the company on december 31 was: $ in millions december 31, 2019 december 31, 2018 long-term debt fixed rate 2,080.3 2,078.0 floating rate 330.8 total 2,080.3 2,408.8 weighted average interest rate percentage 3.9 % 3.8 % weighted average period for which rate is fixed in years 7.9 8.9 see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 9 , long-term debt for additional disclosures relating to the u.s. dollar floating and fixed rate obligations. the company's fixed interest financial assets at december 31, 2019 , include foreign time deposit investments of $32.0 million ( 2018 : $28.1 million ). the weighted average interest rate on these investments is 0.46% ( 2018 : 0.46% ) and the weighted average time for which the rate is fixed is 0.2 years ( 2018 : 0.2 years). foreign exchange rate risk the company has transactional currency exposures that occur when any of the company's subsidiaries receive or pay cash in a currency different from its functional currency. such exposure arises from sales or purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. these exposures are not actively managed. the company also has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets and results of operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risk when translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation into invesco ltd. a strengthening u.s. dollar has a negative impact on the company's foreign currency denominated earnings when presented in u.s. dollars. the company's most significant foreign exchange rate risk exposure relates to the translation of pound sterling-denominated transactions into the u.s. dollar reporting currency. item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 18 , "geographic information," contains disclosure of revenue from external customers by geography. the disclosure of revenues from external customers earned in the u.k. is an indicator of the company's exposure to the pound sterling; however, expenses incurred in the u.k. provide a natural offset to the company's exposure to the pound sterling. given this exposure, the company continued to hedge this risk through out-of-the money put option contracts to hedge economically the foreign currency risk on the translation of its pound sterling-denominated earnings into u.s. dollars through june 30, 2020 . these programs may serve to reduce, but not fully eliminate the impact of pound sterling foreign currency risk and the impact on our consolidated income statements. the pound sterling/u.s. dollar contracts have a strike price set at $1.25 based on the average daily foreign exchange rates for the applicable time period. other than the fair value of the put 72 table of contents option contracts, there is no additional loss exposure to the company, only the potential for a gain should the average exchange rates fall below the strike levels during the hedged periods. at december 31, 2019 , a 10% decline in the annual average pound sterling to u.s. dollar exchange rate would result in a positive cash flow from the pound sterling/u.s. dollar contracts of $4.3 million. the company is exposed to foreign exchange revaluation into the consolidated statements of income on monetary assets and liabilities that are held by subsidiaries in different functional currencies than the subsidiaries' functional currencies. net foreign exchange revaluation losses were $13.6 million in 2019 ( 2018 : $4.2 million of gains), and are included in general and administrative expenses and other gains and losses, net on the consolidated statements of income. we continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange revaluation and have put in place net investment hedge structures discussed in part ii, item 8, financial statements, note 11 --"other comprehensive income/(loss)." supplementary quarterly financial data the following is selected unaudited consolidated data for invesco ltd. for the quarters indicated: 2019 2018 $ in millions, except per common share data q4 q3 q2 q1 q4 q3 q2 q1 operating revenues: investment management fees 1,254.2 1,257.1 1,071.3 923.7 949.2 1,038.9 1,050.5 1,043.7 service and distribution fees 378.0 385.1 294.1 219.3 231.5 248.0 242.9 246.1 performance fees 49.8 14.9 15.7 21.8 28.3 7.9 11.6 9.1 other 60.8 63.5 58.3 49.8 46.9 47.0 55.6 56.9 total operating revenues 1,742.8 1,720.6 1,439.4 1,214.6 1,255.9 1,341.8 1,360.6 1,355.8 operating expenses: third-party distribution, service and advisory 528.1 545.1 451.8 368.0 372.2 408.0 408.9 419.1 employee compensation 460.1 446.0 421.9 381.3 349.3 380.7 379.2 385.2 marketing 41.0 33.2 33.4 28.0 41.3 33.4 32.1 28.0 property, office and technology 140.8 131.2 114.9 107.2 108.0 103.7 98.6 100.2 general and administrative 121.7 104.5 94.2 83.8 92.9 60.8 87.0 83.7 transaction, integration and restructuring 136.5 185.5 304.9 46.1 61.8 33.1 23.5 18.5 total operating expenses 1,428.2 1,445.5 1,421.1 1,014.4 1,025.5 1,019.7 1,029.3 1,034.7 operating income 314.6 275.1 18.3 200.2 230.4 322.1 331.3 321.1 other income/(expense): equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 9.5 19.8 12.1 15.0 5.0 11.8 7.3 9.7 interest and dividend income 14.0 5.9 3.9 4.7 10.3 4.0 2.8 4.2 interest expense (34.6 ) (35.0 ) (33.0 ) (33.1 ) (29.2 ) (29.6 ) (29.5 ) (23.2 ) other gains and losses, net (3.3 ) 13.8 24.1 31.1 (41.9 ) 5.9 1.4 (5.4 ) other income/(expense) of cip, net 22.8 37.0 51.1 38.9 (26.6 ) 28.1 0.9 27.2 income before income taxes 323.0 316.6 76.5 256.8 148.0 342.3 314.2 333.6 income tax (provision)/benefits (80.4 ) (74.0 ) (14.5 ) (66.2 ) (53.2 ) (61.1 ) (72.3 ) (68.4 ) net income 242.6 242.6 62.0 190.6 94.8 281.2 241.9 265.2 net (income)/loss attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities (3.6 ) (11.1 ) (21.9 ) (12.9 ) 19.4 (11.6 ) 3.2 (11.3 ) less: dividends declared on preferred shares (59.2 ) (64.4 ) net income attributable to invesco ltd. 179.8 167.1 40.1 177.7 114.2 269.6 245.1 253.9 earnings per common share (1) : basic $0.40 $0.36 $0.09 $0.44 $0.28 $0.65 $0.59 $0.62 diluted $0.39 $0.36 $0.09 $0.44 $0.28 $0.65 $0.59 $0.62 average common shares outstanding (1) : basic 454.1 462.8 431.6 401.6 410.0 414.3 413.9 411.3 diluted 457.9 466.9 433.8 401.9 410.1 414.4 414.1 411.8 dividends declared per common share: $0.31 $0.31 $0.31 $0.30 $0.30 $0.30 $0.30 $0.29 ____________ (1) the sum of the quarterly earnings per common share amounts may differ from the annual earnings per common share amounts due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of common shares in interim periods. 73 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors recent volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, have negatively affected invesco revenues and may continue to do so. the capital and credit markets have been experiencing substantial volatility and disruption for over a year. while these disruptions moderated to some extent following the march 2009 lows in equity markets, historical norms have not returned and the potential for extreme disruptions remains. these market events have materially impacted our results of operations, and may continue to do so, and could materially impact our financial condition and liquidity. in this regard: the volatility of global market conditions around the world has resulted, and may continue to result, in significant volatility in our assets under management and in our revenues, driven by market value fluctuations on our managed portfolios. in addition to the impact of the market values on client portfolios, the illiquidity and volatility of both the global fixed income and equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows from pooled investment vehicles or to timely meet client redemption requests. our money market funds have always maintained a $1.00 net asset value (nav); however, we do not guarantee such level. market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could affect their navs. if the nav of one of our money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in assets under management, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. the sec has recently adopted new rules governing u.s. registered money market funds. these new rules are designed to significantly strengthen the regulatory requirements governing money market funds, increase the resilience of such funds to economic stresses, and reduce the risk of runs on these funds. regulators in the u.s. are evaluating whether to propose mandating a variable ( floating ) nav for money market funds. the company believes such a change would have significant adverse consequences on the money market funds industry and the short-term credit markets. even if legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. 11 table of contents in the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure in the global financial system or additional failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer further significant declines in assets under management and severe liquidity or valuation issues in the short-term sponsored investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and retention and ability to attract key employees. additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill. we may not adjust our expenses quickly enough to match further significant deterioration in global financial markets. in response to significant reductions in our assets under management related to recent adverse changes in world financial markets, we have undertaken a variety of efforts to achieve cost savings and reduce our overall operating expenses. if we are unable to effect appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace, our profitability, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. our revenues would be adversely affected by any reduction in assets under our management as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. we derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of assets under management. assets under management may decline for various reasons. for any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin may decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses remain relatively fixed. factors that could decrease assets under management (and therefore revenues) include the following: declines in the market value of the assets in the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which those assets are concentrated. approximately 41% of our total assets under management were invested in equity securities and approximately 59% were invested in fixed income and other securities at december 31, 2009. through the date of the filing of the annual report on form 10-k with the sec, markets continue to be volatile. our aum as of january 31, 2010, was $412.6 billion. we cannot predict whether the continued volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our assets under management are concentrated. any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin. redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in funds and accounts in general or in the market segments on which invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance of the funds and accounts managed by invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales, increased redemptions of fund shares, and the loss of private institutional or individual accounts, with corresponding decreases in our revenues. failure of our funds and accounts to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income and stable return accounts. therefore, our revenues may decline if clients shift their investments to lower fee accounts. declines in the value of seed capital and partnership investments. the company has investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including, but not limited to equities, fixed income products, private equity, and real estate. investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks, or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed investments. as of december 31, 2009, the company had $151.8 million in seed capital and partnership investments. our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time. substantially all of our revenues are derived from investment advisory agreements. investment advisory agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days notice. agreements with u.s. mutual funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the 12 table of contents event of an assignment (as defined in the investment company act), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund board of directors or trustees, as required by law. in addition, the board of trustees or directors of certain other fund accounts of invesco or our subsidiaries generally may terminate these investment advisory agreements upon written notice for any reason. mutual fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of assets under our management, and individual clients may elect to close their accounts, redeem their shares in our funds, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different fee structures. any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or assets under management, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility. in a rising-rate environment, certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. these redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. in addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of bonds held in various investment portfolios and other products. thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from money market portfolios and from other fixed income products. if securities within a money market portfolio default, or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its net asset value. although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining net asset value. some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. additionally, we have $17.9 million of equity at risk invested in our collateralized loan obligation products, the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates. we operate in an industry that is highly regulated in many countries, and any adverse changes in the regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict business activities. possible sanctions include the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel, the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees and the imposition of additional capital requirements. it is also possible that laws and regulations governing our operations or particular investment products could be amended or interpreted in a manner that is adverse to us. certain of our subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum levels of capital. these and other similar provisions of applicable law may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. after redomicile and after consultation with the u.k. financial services authority (fsa), it has been determined that, for the purposes of prudential supervision, invesco ltd. is not subject to regulatory consolidated capital requirements under current european union (eu) directives. a sub-group, however, including all of our regulated eu subsidiaries, is subject to these consolidated capital requirements, and capital is maintained within this sub-group to satisfy these regulations. at december 31, 2009, the european sub-group had cash and cash equivalent balances of $333.5 million, much of which is used to satisfy these regulatory requirements. complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the european sub-group. as a result of corporate restructuring and the regulatory undertakings that we have given, certain of these eu subsidiaries may be required to limit their dividends to the parent company, invesco ltd. we cannot guarantee that further corporate restructuring will not be required to comply with applicable legislation. the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen significant increased regulation in recent years. we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. to the extent that existing regulations are amended or future regulations are adopted that reduce the sale, or increase the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affect the investment performance of our products, our aggregate assets under management and our revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, regulatory changes could impose additional costs, which could negatively impact our profitability. 13 table of contents various regulators, legislators, other government officials and other public policy commentators have proposed or are considering proposals for regulatory reform in response to the ongoing crisis in the financial markets. certain proposals are far reaching and if enacted could have a material impact on invesco business. while many of these proposals are designed to address perceived problems in the banking sector, certain of the proposals could be applied to other financial services companies, including asset managers. potential developments include: expanded prudential regulation over investment management firms. new or increased capital requirements and related regulation (including new capital requirements pertaining to money market funds) fundamental change to the regulation of money market funds in the u.s. the sec has recently proposed changes to rule 2a-7, the primary securities regulation governing u.s. registered money market funds. the sec has recently adopted new rules governing u.s. registered money market funds. these new rules are designed to significantly strengthen the regulatory requirements governing money market funds, increase the resilience of such funds to economic stresses, and reduce the risk of runs on these funds. regulators in the u.s. are evaluating whether to propose mandating a variable ( floating ) nav for money market funds. the company believes such a change would have significant adverse consequences on the money market funds industry and the short-term credit markets. changes impacting certain other products or markets (e.g., retirement savings). enhanced licensing and qualification requirements for key personnel. other additional rules and regulations and disclosure requirements. certain proposals would impose additional disclosure burdens on public companies, including invesco. certain of these proposals could impose requirements for more widespread disclosures of compensation to highly-paid individuals. depending upon the scope of any such requirements, the company could be disadvantaged in retaining key employees vis- -vis private companies, including hedge fund sponsors. other changes impacting the identity or the organizational structure of regulators with supervisory authority over invesco. certain proposals would require national legislation or international treaties. invesco cannot at this time predict the impact of potential regulatory changes on its business. it is possible such changes could impose material new compliance costs or capital requirements or impact invesco in other ways that could have a material adverse impact on invesco results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. moreover, such changes could require us to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur other new constraints or costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. to the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of our products and services or our investment strategies cause or contribute to reduced sales or increased redemptions of our products or impair the investment performance of our products, our aggregate assets under management and revenues might be adversely affected. civil litigation and governmental enforcement actions and investigations could adversely affect our assets under management and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business. invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings arising from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory actions. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings, for additional information. the u.s. supreme court is expected to reach a decision in the case of jones v. harris during its current term, which is scheduled to end in june 2010. that case involves the interpretation of section 36(b) of the investment company act of 1940, as amended. section 36(b) grants private parties the right to sue to challenge fees paid by mutual funds to their investment advisers. depending on the nature and scope of the court ruling, the mutual fund industry in the u.s. could face additional litigation defense costs, new compliance costs and additional pressure on mutual fund fees. 14 table of contents our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. retaining highly skilled technical and management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain clients and retail shareholder accounts. the market for investment management professionals is competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as the investment management industry has experienced growth. the market for investment managers is also increasingly characterized by the movement of investment managers among different firms. our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals with compensation and benefits that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. however, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of significant investment management personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. if our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income. our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and the resulting good reputation is critical to our business. our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries, material errors in public reports, employee dishonesty or other misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or satisfactorily addressed. further, our business requires us to continuously manage actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address and manage conflicts of interest, but this task is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged, and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected, if we fail or appear to fail to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our assets under management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or guidelines could result in damage awards against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. many of the asset management agreements under which we manage assets or provide products or services specify guidelines or contractual requirements that invesco is required to observe in the provision of its services. a failure to comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts, any of which could cause our revenues and net income to decline. we maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to prevent, detect and correct such errors. when an error is detected, we typically will make a payment into the applicable client account to correct it. significant errors could impact our results of operations. competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, increase commissions paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries, all of which could reduce our profitability. the investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. we continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products. we face strong competition in every market in which we operate. our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. our competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. if these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various distribution channels around the world have also resulted in increased competition. in 2009, we saw several instances of industry consolidation, both in the area of distributors and manufacturers of investment products. further consolidation may occur in these areas in the future, particularly if the economic environment and the financial markets remain uncertain and volatile. the increasing size and market influence of certain distributors of our products and of certain 15 table of contents direct competitors may have a negative impact on our ability to compete at the same levels of profitability in the future, should we find ourselves unable to maintain relevance in the markets in which we compete. we may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. as part of our business strategy, we regularly review, and from time to time have discussions with respect to, potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to pursue such transactions, be successful in negotiating the required agreements, or successfully close transactions after signing such agreements. on october 19, 2009, we announced that the company had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire morgan stanley retail asset management business, including van kampen investments. the transaction was valued at $1.5 billion (subject to adjustment), consisting of payments by invesco of $500.0 million in cash, for which we expect to use available cash balances and borrowings under our credit facility, and an aggregate of approximately 44.1 million invesco common shares and non-voting common equivalent preferred shares, which will result in morgan stanley obtaining an approximately 9.3% equity interest in our company. the transaction has been approved by the boards of directors of both companies and is expected to close in mid-2010, subject to customary regulatory, client and fund shareholder approvals. as a result of this transaction, and until the time of the deal closing, contractual limitations are in place with respect to our issuing or repurchasing our common shares (other than those related to employee compensation plans), and we are also unable to declare or pay any extraordinary dividends. the aggregate amount of approximately 44.1 million invesco common shares and non-voting common equivalent preferred shares (with economic rights identical to common stock, other than no right to vote such shares,) that we expect to issue to morgan stanley in exchange for their asset management business upon closing the transaction are largely unrestricted. since no lock up exists, morgan stanley may sell these shares in the open market or through a secondary offering subject to certain limited restrictions. if morgan stanley were to sell their future equity stake in invesco, or express an intention to sell the stake, after the close, this may have a significant impact on the company stock price. acquisitions, including the pending acquisition of morgan stanley retail asset management business, also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if pending transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to closing or integration. following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. there can be no assurance that such sellers will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. our ability to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors. our access to the capital markets, including for purposes of financing potential acquisitions, depends significantly on our credit ratings. we have received credit ratings of a3 and bbb from moody and standard poor credit rating agencies, respectively, as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k. standard poor has a positive outlook for the rating, and moody has a stable outlook for the rating as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k. we believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to: our ability to sustain net positive asset flows across customer channels, product type and geographies, our level of indebtedness, our risk appetite and approach to risk management, our ability to maintain consistent positive investment, the profitability of our business under a sustained downturn scenario, and integration risk related to the pending acquisition of morgan stanley retail asset management business. additionally, the rating agencies could decide to downgrade the entire asset management industry, based on their perspective of future growth and solvency. material deterioration of these factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit rating or outlook, thereby limiting our ability to generate additional financing or receive mandates. management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings. a reduction in our long- or short-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, and may result in outflows thereby reducing aum and revenues. the continuing current levels of unprecedented volatility in global finance markets may also affect our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so. if we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. 16 table of contents our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position. as of december 31, 2009, we had outstanding total debt of $745.7 million and shareholders equity of $6,912.9 million. the amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position. our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient assets to repay such amounts in full. our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios, as well as maintaining a minimum amount of long-term assets under management. this credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. the breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or due to a significant and prolonged market-driven decline in our long-term assets under management or our operating results) would result in a default under the credit facility. in the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if any indebtedness under the credit facility were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full. changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our revenues and hinder our growth. we sell a portion of our investment products through a variety of financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, regional broker-dealers, banks and financial planners in north america, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and financial organizations in europe and asia. increasing competition for these distribution channels could cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. as a result of recent market turmoil, there has been some consolidation of banks and broker-dealers, particularly in the u.s., and a limited amount of migration of brokers and financial advisors away from major banks to independent firms focused largely on providing advice. if these trends continue, our distribution costs could increase as a percentage of our revenues generated. additionally, particularly outside of the u.s., certain of the intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. increasingly, investors, particularly in the institutional market, rely on external consultants and other unconflicted third parties for advice on the choice of investment manager. these consultants and third parties tend to exert a significant degree of influence and they may favor a competitor of invesco as better meeting their particular client needs. there is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. additionally, if one of our major distributors were to cease operations, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. moreover, any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources and the consultant community would impair our ability to sell our products, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard confidential and sensitive information. we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations as part of our regular operations. our systems could be attacked by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things, damage our reputation, allow competitors to access our proprietary business information, result in liability for failure to safeguard our clients data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, or require material capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. our business is vulnerable to deficiencies and failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to breaches and errors, resulting in loss of customers or claims against us or our subsidiaries. the ability to consistently and reliably obtain accurate securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and investors in other accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. in recent periods, illiquid markets for certain types of securities have required increased use of fair 17 table of contents value pricing, which is dependent on certain subjective judgments. any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports, other breaches and errors, and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate customers and potentially give rise to claims against us. our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party vendors. these systems could suffer deficiencies, failures or interruptions due to various natural or man-made causes, and our back-up procedures and capabilities may not be adequate to avoid extended interruptions in operations. certain of these processes involve a degree of manual input, and thus similar problems could occur from time to time due to human error. if we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems would provide us with an important advantage. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or technology personnel. further, as we strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. although we seek to regularly assess and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the united states and have functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. the largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our assets under management, is presently derived from the united states. however, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the united states whose functional currencies are not the u.s. dollar. as a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. we do not actively manage our exposure to such effects. consequently, significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the u.k. pound sterling, euro, or canadian dollar, among other currencies, could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results. the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we have goodwill on our balance sheet that is subject to an annual impairment review. goodwill totaled $6,467.6 million at december 31, 2009 (2008: $5,966.8 million). we may not realize the value of such goodwill. we perform impairment reviews of the book values of goodwill on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. a variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related assets would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period. see part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies goodwill for additional details of the company goodwill impairment analysis process. implementation of new accounting rules in our consolidated financial statements could result in investor confusion or potential deficiencies in internal controls over financial reporting. in june 2009, the financial accounting standards board issued statement no. 167, amendments to fasb interpretation no. 46(r) (fasb statement no. 167), now encompassed in accounting standards codification topic 810, consolidation. fasb statement no. 167 is effective january 1, 2010, and its adoption will be reflected in our first quarter 2010 form 10-q. the adoption of fasb statement no. 167 will have a significant impact on the presentation of our financial statements, as it will require us to consolidate, for the first time, certain collateralized loan and debt obligation products (clos) with approximately $6 billion in aum at december 31, 2009, into our financial statements. as a result, the company consolidated statement of income will reflect the elimination of management and performance fees earned from these clos. in addition, fasb statement no. 167 will require that our consolidated balance sheet reflect the collateral assets held and non-recourse debt issued by these clos, despite the fact that the 18 table of contents assets cannot be used by the company, nor is the company obligated for the debt. in addition, the new rules will require our consolidated cash flow statement to reflect the cash flows of the clos. the adoption of fasb statement no. 167 in the company financial statements could have an impact on users analyses of our underlying results of operations, financial position, or liquidity. as a result, external credit rating agencies or analysts could report information not reflective of the underlying financial condition of the company. deficiencies in internal controls over financial reporting could result, as the financial information of the funds required to be consolidated do not form part of the company financial reporting systems and processes. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to shareholders. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda ( companies act ). the companies act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. under bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances. directors and officers may owe duties to a company creditors in cases of impending insolvency. directors and officers of a bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. if a director or officer of a bermuda company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. our bye-laws provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to us other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the companies act. under our bye-laws, each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against us or any of our officers, directors or employees. the waiver applies to any action taken by a director, officer or employee, or the failure of such person to take any action, in the performance of his duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the director, officer or employee. this waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our directors, officers and employees unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows. under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. there is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation. we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. proposals have been introduced in the u.s. congress that, if ultimately enacted, could either limit treaty benefits on certain payments made by our u.s. subsidiaries to non-u.s. affiliates, treat the company as a u.s. corporation and thereby subject the earnings from non-u.s. subsidiaries of the company to u.s. taxation, or both. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 19 table of contents examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or to obtain majority representation on our board of directors without the consent of our board. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares under such circumstances. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the company is primarily exposed to market risk in the form of securities market risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk. aum market price risk the company investment management revenues are comprised of fees based on a percentage of the value of aum. declines in equity or fixed income security market prices could cause revenues to decline because of lower investment management fees by: causing the value of aum to decrease. causing the returns realized on aum to decrease (impacting performance fees). causing clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments in markets that they perceive to offer greater opportunity and that the company does not serve. causing clients to rebalance assets away from investments that the company manages into investments that the company does not manage. causing clients to reallocate assets away from products that earn higher revenues into products that earn lower revenues. underperformance of client accounts relative to competing products could exacerbate these factors. securities market risk the company has investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes. investments are generally made to establish a track record or to economically hedge exposure to certain deferred compensation plans. the company exposure to market risk arises from its investments. the following table summarizes the fair values of the investments exposed to market risk and provides a sensitivity analysis of the estimated fair values of those investments, assuming a 20% increase or decrease in fair values: fair value fair value carrying assuming 20% assuming 20% $ in millions value increase decrease december 31, 2009 trading investments: investments related to deferred compensation plans 84.6 101.5 67.7 available-for-sale investments: seed money in affiliated funds 74.8 89.8 59.8 equity method investments 134.7 161.6 107.8 other 5.3 6.4 4.2 total market risk on investments 299.4 359.3 239.5 56 table of contents fair value fair value carrying assuming 20% assuming 20% $ in millions value increase decrease december 31, 2008 trading investments: investments related to deferred compensation plans 35.5 42.6 28.4 other 0.7 0.8 0.6 total trading investments 36.2 43.4 29.0 available-for-sale investments: seed money in affiliated funds 69.1 82.9 55.3 other 8.5 10.2 6.8 equity method investments 95.3 114.4 76.2 total market risk on investments 209.1 250.9 167.3 interest rate risk interest rate risk relates to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its external debt and cash and cash equivalent investments. on december 31, 2009, the interest rates on 100% of the company borrowings were fixed for a weighted average period of 3.4 years. borrowings under the credit facility will have floating interest rates. the interest rate profile of the financial assets of the company on december 31, 2009, was: fair value fair value assuming a assuming a carrying 1% interest -1% interest $ in millions value rate change rate change december 31, 2009 available-for-sale investments: collateralized loan obligations 17.9 18.5 17.3 foreign time deposits 22.5 22.6 22.5 total investments 40.4 41.1 39.8 december 31, 2008 available-for-sale investments: collateralized loan obligations 17.5 17.0 18.0 foreign time deposits 17.3 17.2 17.3 other 1.0 1.0 1.0 total investments 35.8 35.2 36.3 the interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the company on december 31 was: weighted weighted average average period for which interest rate is fixed $ in millions total floating rate fixed rate* rate (%) (years) 2009 currency: u.s. dollar 745.7 745.7 5.1 % 3.4 japanese yen 0.1 0.1 9.7 % 1.3 745.8 745.8 5.1 % 3.4 2008 currency: u.s. dollar 1,159.2 12.0 1,147.2 4.9 % 3.4 japanese yen 0.3 0.3 9.1 % 2.1 1,159.5 12.0 1,147.5 4.9 % 3.4 * measured at amortized cost. 57 table of contents see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data note 9, debt for additional disclosures relating to the u.s. dollar floating and fixed rate obligations. the company only fixed interest financial assets at december 31, 2009, are foreign time deposit investments of $22.5 million (2008: $17.3 million). the weighted average interest rate on these investments is 0.74% (2008: 2.08%) and the weighted average time for which the rate is fixed is 0.4 years (2008: 0.4 years). foreign exchange rate risk the company has transactional currency exposures that occur when any of the company subsidiaries receives or pays cash in a currency different from its functional currency. such exposure arises from sales or purchases by an operating unit in currencies other than the unit functional currency. these exposures are not actively managed. the company also has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets and results of operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risk when translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation into invesco ltd. the company does not hedge these exposures. the company is exposed to foreign exchange revaluation into the income statement on monetary assets and liabilities that are held by subsidiaries in different functional currencies than the subsidiaries functional currencies. net foreign exchange revaluation gains were $7.6 million in 2009 (2008: loss of $10.7 million), and are included in general and administrative expenses and other gains and losses, net on the consolidated statements of income. we continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange revaluation. 58 table of contents supplementary quarterly financial data the following is selected unaudited consolidated data for invesco ltd. for the quarters ended: $ in millions, except per share data q409 q309 q209 q109 q408 q308 q208 q108 operating revenues: investment management fees $ 611.8 $ 570.3 $ 501.6 $ 436.5 $ 478.5 $ 664.9 $ 736.8 $ 737.6 service and distribution fees 111.4 111.8 100.4 89.0 101.4 129.4 143.3 138.4 performance fees 6.8 4.3 8.0 10.9 23.8 18.1 22.2 11.0 other 17.8 19.4 15.1 12.2 30.7 14.8 33.3 23.4 total operating revenues 747.8 705.8 625.1 548.6 634.4 827.2 935.6 910.4 operating expenses: employee compensation 247.1 238.9 229.0 235.8 236.0 264.1 282.9 272.8 third-party distribution, service and advisory 195.4 183.5 166.3 148.2 162.6 220.9 244.9 247.1 marketing 30.4 27.7 23.9 26.9 31.3 34.8 38.2 43.9 property, office and technology 54.8 63.0 48.6 45.9 58.0 50.5 55.7 50.1 general and administrative 49.8 40.0 46.9 30.0 62.0 61.7 73.9 68.4 transaction and integration 9.8 1.0 total operating expenses 587.3 554.2 514.7 486.8 549.9 632.0 695.6 682.3 operating income 160.5 151.6 110.4 61.8 84.5 195.2 240.0 228.1 other income/(expense): equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 9.1 7.9 7.5 2.5 11.3 8.0 9.6 17.9 interest income 2.1 1.7 1.2 4.8 7.2 8.0 10.5 11.5 gains/(losses) of consolidated investment products, net 25.9 2.1 (48.4 ) (86.5 ) (56.8 ) 2.8 40.3 (44.3 ) interest expense (15.2 ) (16.9 ) (16.5 ) (15.9 ) (17.8 ) (18.3 ) (19.3 ) (21.5 ) other gains and losses, net 2.0 10.0 (4.2 ) (21.9 ) (10.4 ) (1.1 ) (6.5 ) income/(loss) before income taxes, including gains and losses attributable to noncontrolling interests 182.4 148.4 64.2 (37.5 ) 6.5 185.3 280.0 185.2 income tax provision (48.2 ) (43.7 ) (36.0 ) (20.3 ) (35.8 ) (49.2 ) (77.2 ) (73.8 ) net income/(loss), including gains and losses attributable to noncontrolling interests 134.2 104.7 28.2 (57.8 ) (29.3 ) 136.1 202.8 111.4 (gains)/losses attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities, net (23.3 ) 0.5 47.5 88.5 61.2 (4.3 ) (40.0 ) 43.8 net income attributable to common shareholders $ 110.9 $ 105.2 $ 75.7 $ 30.7 $ 31.9 $ 131.8 $ 162.8 $ 155.2 earnings per share*: basic $ 0.26 $ 0.24 $ 0.18 $ 0.08 $ 0.08 $ 0.34 $ 0.42 $ 0.40 diluted $ 0.25 $ 0.24 $ 0.18 $ 0.08 $ 0.08 $ 0.33 $ 0.41 $ 0.39 average shares outstanding*: basic 434.1 431.6 410.6 394.1 386.3 388.4 390.1 390.0 diluted 440.1 437.7 416.8 399.9 394.8 399.3 400.7 400.8 dividends declared per share*: $ 0.1025 $ 0.1025 $ 0.1025 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.10 $ 0.22 * dividends declared represent amounts declared in the current quarter in respect of the prior quarter, with the exception of the $0.22 per share dividend declared in the first quarter of 2008. this dividend was attributable to the second half of 2007 and was declared when the company formerly declared semi-annual dividends. the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may differ from the annual earnings per share amounts due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in interim periods. 59 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors volatility and disruption in world capital and credit markets, as well as adverse changes in the global economy, can negatively affect invesco revenues and may continue to do so. the capital and credit markets have been experiencing substantial volatility and disruption since 2007. while these disruptions moderated to some extent following the march 2009 lows in equity markets, historical norms have not returned and the potential for extreme disruptions remains. these market events have materially impacted our results of operations, and may continue to do so, and could materially impact our financial condition and liquidity. in this regard: the volatility of global market conditions around the world has resulted, and may continue to result, in significant volatility in our assets under management and in our revenues, driven by market value fluctuations on our managed portfolios. in addition to the impact of the market values on client portfolios, the illiquidity and volatility of both the global fixed income and equity markets could negatively affect our ability to manage client inflows and outflows from pooled investment vehicles or to timely meet client redemption requests. our money market funds have always maintained a $1.00 net asset value (nav); however, we do not guarantee such level. market conditions could lead to severe liquidity issues in money market products, which could affect their navs. if the nav of one of our money market funds were to decline below $1.00 per share, such funds could experience significant redemptions in assets under management, loss of shareholder confidence and reputational harm. in 2010 the sec adopted new rules governing u.s. registered money market funds. these rules are designed to significantly strengthen the regulatory requirements governing money market funds, increase the resilience of such funds to economic stresses, and 10 table of contents reduce the risk of runs on these funds. regulators in the u.s. continue to evaluate whether to propose mandating a variable ( floating ) nav for money market funds. the company believes such a change would have significant adverse consequences on the money market funds industry and the short-term credit markets. even if legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur increased capital requirements and constraints or additional costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. in the event of extreme circumstances, including economic, political, or business crises, such as a widespread systemic failure in the global financial system or additional failures of firms that have significant obligations as counterparties on financial instruments, we may suffer significant declines in assets under management and severe liquidity or valuation issues in the short-term sponsored investment products in which client and company assets are invested, all of which would adversely affect our operating results, financial condition, liquidity, credit ratings, ability to access capital markets, and retention and ability to attract key employees. additionally, these factors could impact our ability to realize the carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets. we may not adjust our expenses quickly enough to match significant deterioration in global financial markets. if we are unable to effect appropriate expense reductions in a timely manner in response to declines in our revenues, or if we are otherwise unable to adapt to rapid changes in the global marketplace, our profitability, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. our revenues would be adversely affected by any reduction in assets under our management as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. we derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value of assets under management. assets under management may decline for various reasons. for any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin may decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses remain fixed. factors that could decrease assets under management (and therefore revenues) include the following: declines in the market value of the assets in the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which those assets are concentrated. approximately 48% of our total assets under management were invested in equity securities and approximately 52% were invested in fixed income and other investments at december 31, 2010. our aum as of january 31, 2011, was $624.3 billion. we cannot predict whether volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our assets under management are concentrated. any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin. redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in funds and accounts in general or in the market segments on which invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance of the funds and accounts managed by invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales, increased redemptions of fund shares, and the loss of private institutional or individual accounts, with corresponding decreases in our revenues. failure of our funds and accounts to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income and stable return accounts. therefore, our revenues may decline if clients shift their investments to lower fee accounts. declines in the value of seed capital and partnership investments. the company has investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including, but not limited to equities, fixed income products, private equity, and real estate. investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record, meet purchase size requirements for trading blocks, or demonstrate economic alignment with other investors in our funds. adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed capital and partnership investments. as of december 31, 2010, the company had $198.0 million in seed capital and partnership investments. 11 table of contents our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time. substantially all of our revenues are derived from investment advisory agreements. investment advisory agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days notice. agreements with u.s. mutual funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the event of an assignment (as defined in the investment company act), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund board of directors or trustees, as required by law. in addition, the board of trustees or directors of certain other fund accounts of invesco or our subsidiaries generally may terminate these investment advisory agreements upon written notice for any reason. mutual fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of assets under our management, and individual clients may elect to close their accounts, redeem their shares in our funds, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different fee structures. any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or assets under management, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility. certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. these redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. in addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of bonds held in various investment portfolios and other products. thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from money market portfolios and from other fixed income products. if securities within a money market portfolio default, or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its net asset value. although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining net asset value. some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. additionally, we have $32.9 million invested in invesco mortgage capital, inc., $23.3 million of equity at risk invested in our collateralized loan obligation products, and $7.1 million invested in fixed income seed money at december 31, 2010, the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates. we operate in an industry that is highly regulated in many countries, and any adverse changes in the laws or regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict business activities. subsidiaries operating in the european union (eu) also are subject to various eu directives, which are implemented by member state national legislation. possible sanctions include the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel, the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees and the imposition of additional capital requirements. it is also possible that laws and regulations governing our operations or particular investment products could be amended or interpreted in a manner that is adverse to us. certain of our subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum levels of capital. these and other similar provisions of applicable law may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. a sub-group of invesco subsidiaries, including all of our regulated eu subsidiaries, is subject to consolidated capital requirements under eu directives, and capital is maintained within this sub-group to satisfy these regulations. at december 31, 2010, the european sub-group had cash and cash equivalent balances of $456.2 million, much of which is used to satisfy these regulatory requirements. complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the european sub-group. as a result of corporate restructuring and the regulatory undertakings that we have given, certain of these eu subsidiaries may be required to limit their dividends to the parent company, invesco ltd. we cannot guarantee that further corporate restructuring will not be required to comply with applicable legislation. the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen significant increased regulation in recent years. we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. to the extent that existing regulations are amended or future regulations are adopted that reduce the sale, or increase the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affect the investment performance of our products, our aggregate assets under management and our revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, regulatory changes could impose additional costs, which could negatively impact our profitability. 12 table of contents various changes in law and regulation have been enacted or adopted and are beginning to be implemented or otherwise developed in multiple jurisdictions globally in response to the crisis in the financial markets that began in 2007. various other proposals remain under consideration by various legislators, regulators, other government officials and other public policy commentators. certain enacted provisions and certain other proposals are potentially far reaching and, depending upon their implementation, could have a material impact on invesco business. while many of these provisions appear designed to address perceived problems in the banking sector, certain of the provisions will or may be applied to other financial services companies, including investment managers. in the united states, the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ) was signed into law on july 21, 2010. while invesco does not at this time believe that the dodd-frank act will fundamentally change the investment management industry or cause invesco to reconsider its fundamental strategy, it does appear that certain provisions will, and other provisions may, increase regulatory burdens and related compliance costs. in addition, the scope of many provisions of the dodd-frank act will be determined by implementing regulations, some of which will require lengthy proposal and promulgation periods. moreover, the dodd-frank act mandates many regulatory studies, some of which pertain directly to the investment management industry, which could lead to additional legislation or regulation. as a result of these uncertainties regarding implementation of the dodd-frank act and such other future potential legislative or regulatory changes, the impact of the dodd-frank act on the investment management industry and invesco cannot be predicted at this time. the european union has promulgated or is considering various new or revised directives pertaining to financial services, including investment managers. such directives are progressing at various stages, and are being or will or would be implemented by national legislation in member states. as with the dodd-frank act, invesco does not believe implementation of these directives will fundamentally change our industry or cause us to reconsider our fundamental strategy, but it does appear certain provisions will, and other provisions may, increase regulatory burdens and compliance costs. similar developments are being implemented or considered in other jurisdictions where we do business; such developments could have similar effects. potential developments under enacted and proposed legal and regulatory changes, and related matters, include: expanded prudential regulation over investment management firms. new or increased capital requirements and related regulation (including new capital requirements pertaining to money market funds). additional change to the regulation of money market funds in the u.s. the sec has adopted changes to rule 2a-7, the primary securities regulation governing u.s. registered money market funds. these new rules are designed to significantly strengthen the regulatory requirements governing money market funds, increase the resilience of such funds to economic stresses, and reduce the risk of runs on these funds. regulators in the u.s. continue to evaluate whether to propose mandating a variable ( floating ) nav for money market funds. invesco believes such a change would have significant adverse consequences on the money market funds industry and the short-term credit markets, and is encouraged by the recognition of these concerns in the report of the president working group on financial markets on money market fund reform options issued october 21, 2010. changes to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products. in the u.s., the sec has proposed significant changes to rule 12b-1. invesco believes these proposals would increase operational and compliance costs. the u.k. financial services authority continues to develop its retail distribution review, which is expected to reshape the manner in which retail investment funds are sold in the u.k. the eu adopted the alternative investment fund manager directive; implementing legislation in member states could, among other elements, impose restrictions on the marketing and sale within the eu of private equity and other alternative investment funds sponsored by non-eu managers. various regulators have promulgated or are considering other new disclosure and suitability requirements pertaining to the distribution of investment funds and other investment products, including enhanced standards and requirements pertaining to disclosures made to retail investors at the point of sale. guidelines regarding the structure and components of compensation, including under the dodd-frank act and various eu directives. additional resourcing for regulatory examinations and inspections, including enforcement reviews, and a more aggressive posture regarding commencing enforcement proceedings. changes impacting certain other products or markets (e.g., retirement savings). enhanced licensing and qualification requirements for key personnel. 13 table of contents other additional rules and regulations and disclosure requirements. certain provisions impose additional disclosure burdens on public companies, including invesco. certain proposals could impose requirements for more widespread disclosures of compensation to highly-paid individuals. depending upon the scope of any such requirements, invesco could be disadvantaged in retaining key employees vis- -vis private companies, including hedge fund sponsors. strengthening standards regarding various ethical matters, including enhanced focus of u.s. regulators and law enforcement agencies on compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and the enactment of the u.k. bribery act. other changes impacting the identity or the organizational structure of regulators with supervisory authority over invesco. invesco cannot at this time predict the full impact of potential legal and regulatory changes on its business. it is possible such changes could impose new compliance costs or capital requirements or impact invesco in other ways that could have a material adverse impact on invesco results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. moreover, certain legal or regulatory changes could require us to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur other new constraints or costs in order to satisfy new regulatory requirements or to compete in a changed business environment. to the extent that existing or future regulations affecting the sale of our products and services or our investment strategies cause or contribute to reduced sales or increased redemptions of our products or impair the investment performance of our products, our aggregate assets under management and results of operations might be adversely affected. civil litigation and governmental enforcement actions and investigations could adversely affect our assets under management and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business. invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings arising from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory actions. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings, for additional information. our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of key individuals or a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. retaining highly skilled technical and management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain clients and retail shareholder accounts. the market for investment management professionals is competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as the investment management industry has experienced growth. the market for investment managers is also increasingly characterized by the movement of investment managers among different firms. our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals with a supportive professional working environment and compensation and benefits that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. however, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of key individuals or significant investment management personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. if our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income. our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and our good reputation is critical to our business. our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries, material errors in public reports, employee dishonesty or other misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or satisfactorily addressed. further, our business requires us to continuously manage actual and potential conflicts of interest, including situations where our services to a particular client conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of another client or those of invesco. we have procedures and controls that are designed to address and manage conflicts of interest, but this task can be complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged, and the willingness of clients to enter into transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be affected, if we fail or appear to fail to deal appropriately with conflicts of interest. in addition, potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory enforcement actions. any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our assets under management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. 14 table of contents failure to comply with client contractual requirements and/or guidelines could result in damage awards against us and loss of revenues due to client terminations. many of the investment management agreements under which we manage assets or provide products or services specify guidelines or contractual requirements that invesco is required to observe in the provision of its services. a failure to comply with these guidelines or contractual requirements could result in damage to our reputation or in our clients seeking to recover losses, withdrawing their assets or terminating their contracts, any of which could cause our revenues and net income to decline. we maintain various compliance procedures and other controls to prevent, detect and correct such errors. when an error is detected, we typically will make a payment into the applicable client account to correct it. significant errors could impact our results of operations. competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, increase commissions paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries, all of which could reduce our profitability. the investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financial strength, stability and continuity of client and intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. we continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products. we face strong competition in every market in which we operate. our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. our competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. if these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various distribution channels around the world have also resulted in increased competition. in recent years there have been several instances of industry consolidation, both in the area of distributors and manufacturers of investment products. further consolidation may occur in these areas in the future. the increasing size and market influence of certain distributors of our products and of certain direct competitors may have a negative impact on our ability to compete at the same levels of profitability in the future, should we find ourselves unable to maintain relevance in the markets in which we compete. we may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. as part of our business strategy, we regularly review, and from time to time have discussions with respect to, potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to pursue such transactions, be successful in negotiating the required agreements, or successfully close transactions after signing such agreements. acquisitions also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if pending transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to closing or integration. following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. there can be no assurance that such sellers will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. our ability to access the capital markets in a timely manner should we seek to do so depends on a number of factors. our access to the capital markets, including for purposes of financing potential acquisitions, depends significantly on our credit ratings. we have received credit ratings of a3/stable and a-/stable from moody and standard poor credit rating agencies, respectively, as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k. according to moody s, obligations rated a are considered upper medium grade and are subject to low credit risk. invesco rating of a3 is at the low end of the a range (a1, a2, a3), but three notches above the lowest investment grade rating of baa3. standard and poor rating of a- is at the lower end of the a rating, with bbb- representing standard and poor lowest investment grade rating. according to standard and poor s, a obligations exhibit a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, but are somewhat susceptible to adverse economic conditions or changing circumstances. we believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to: our revenues are somewhat exposed to equity market volatility, negative tangible equity, potential impact from regulatory changes to the industry, and integration risk related to the acquisition of morgan stanley retail asset management business. additionally, the rating agencies could decide to downgrade the entire investment management industry, based on their perspective of future growth and solvency. material deterioration of these 15 table of contents factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit ratings, thereby limiting our ability to generate additional financing. our credit facility borrowing rates are tied to our credit ratings. management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings. a reduction in our long- or short-term credit ratings could increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets, and may result in outflows thereby reducing aum and revenues. continued volatility in global finance markets may also affect our ability to access the capital markets should we seek to do so. if we are unable to access capital markets in a timely manner, our business could be adversely affected. our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position. as of december 31, 2010, we had outstanding total debt of $1,315.7 million and total equity attributable to common shareholders of $7,769.1 million, excluding retained earnings appropriated for investors in consolidated investment products. the amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position or results of operations. our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient assets to repay such amounts in full. our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios. this credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. the breach of any covenant (either due to our actions or due to a significant and prolonged market-driven decline in our operating results) would result in a default under the credit facility. in the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if any indebtedness under the credit facility were subject to accelerated repayment, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full. changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our revenues and hinder our growth. we sell a significant portion of our investment products through a variety of financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, regional broker-dealers, banks and financial planners in north america, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and financial organizations in europe and asia. increasing competition for these distribution channels could cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. following the financial crisis, there has been consolidation of banks and broker-dealers, particularly in the u.s., and a limited amount of migration of brokers and financial advisors away from major banks to independent firms focused largely on providing advice. if these trends continue, our distribution costs could increase as a percentage of our revenues generated. additionally, particularly outside of the u.s., certain of the intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. increasingly, investors, particularly in the institutional market, rely on external consultants and other unconflicted third parties for advice on the choice of investment manager. these consultants and third parties tend to exert a significant degree of influence and they may favor a competitor of invesco as better meeting their particular client needs. there is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. if one of our major distributors were to cease operations, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources and the consultant community would impair our ability to sell our products, which in turn could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard confidential and sensitive information. we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations as part of our regular operations. our systems could be attacked by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. 16 table of contents such disclosure could, among other things, damage our reputation, allow competitors to access our proprietary business information, result in liability for failure to safeguard our clients data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, or require material capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. our business is vulnerable to deficiencies and failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to breaches and errors, resulting in loss of customers or claims against us or our subsidiaries. the ability to consistently and reliably obtain accurate securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and clients in other accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. in recent periods, illiquid markets for certain types of securities have required increased use of fair value pricing, which is dependent on certain subjective judgments that have the potential to be challenged. any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports, other breaches and errors, and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate customers and potentially give rise to claims against us. our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party vendors. these systems or vendors could suffer deficiencies, failures or interruptions due to various natural or man-made causes, and our back-up procedures and capabilities may not be adequate to avoid extended interruptions in operations. certain of these processes involve a degree of manual input, and thus similar problems could occur from time to time due to human error. if we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems would provide us with an important advantage. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or technology personnel. further, as we strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes to lower-cost geographic locations such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. although we seek to regularly assess and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the united states and have functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. the largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our assets under management, is presently derived from the united states. however, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the united states whose functional currencies are not the u.s. dollar. as a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. we do not actively manage our exposure to such effects. consequently, significant strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to the u.k. pound sterling, euro, or canadian dollar, among other currencies, could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results. the carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we have goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets on our balance sheet that are subject to annual impairment reviews. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $6,980.2 million and $1,161.7 million, respectively, at december 31, 2010 (2009: $6,467.6 million and $110.6 million, respectively). we may not realize the value of such assets. we perform impairment reviews of the book values of these assets on an annual basis or more frequently if impairment indicators are present. a variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related assets would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period. see part ii, item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations critical accounting policies goodwill and intangibles for additional details of the company goodwill impairment analysis process. 17 table of contents bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to shareholders. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda ( companies act ). the companies act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. under bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances. directors and officers may owe duties to a company creditors in cases of impending insolvency. directors and officers of a bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. if a director or officer of a bermuda company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. our bye-laws provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to us other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the companies act. under our bye-laws, each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, both individually and on our behalf, other than those involving fraud or dishonesty, against us or any of our officers, directors or employees. the waiver applies to any action taken by a director, officer or employee, or the failure of such person to take any action, in the performance of his duties, except with respect to any matter involving any fraud or dishonesty on the part of the director, officer or employee. this waiver limits the right of shareholders to assert claims against our directors, officers and employees unless the act or failure to act involves fraud or dishonesty. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows. under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. there is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation. we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. proposals have been introduced in the u.s. congress that, if ultimately enacted, could either limit treaty benefits on certain payments made by our u.s. subsidiaries to non-u.s. affiliates, treat the company as a u.s. corporation and thereby subject the earnings from non-u.s. subsidiaries of the company to u.s. taxation, or both. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. we have anti-takeover provisions in our bye-laws that may discourage a change of control. our bye-laws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us or to obtain majority representation on our board of directors without the consent of our board. as a result, shareholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares under such circumstances. 18 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the company is primarily exposed to market risk in the form of securities market risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk. aum market price risk the company investment management revenues are comprised of fees based on a percentage of the value of aum. declines in equity or fixed income security market prices could cause revenues to decline because of lower investment management fees by: causing the value of aum to decrease. causing the returns realized on aum to decrease (impacting performance fees). causing clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments in markets that they perceive to offer greater opportunity and that the company does not serve. causing clients to rebalance assets away from investments that the company manages into investments that the company does not manage. causing clients to reallocate assets away from products that earn higher revenues into products that earn lower revenues. underperformance of client accounts relative to competing products could exacerbate these factors. securities market risk the company has investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes. investments are generally made to establish a track record or to hedge economically exposure to certain deferred compensation plans. the company exposure to market risk arises from its investments. the following table summarizes the fair values of the investments exposed to market risk and provides a sensitivity analysis of the estimated fair values of those investments, assuming a 20% increase or decrease in fair values: fair value fair value carrying assuming 20% assuming 20% $ in millions value increase decrease december 31, 2010 trading investments: investments related to deferred compensation plans 165.5 198.6 132.4 available-for-sale investments: seed money in affiliated funds 99.5 119.4 79.6 equity method investments 156.9 188.3 125.5 other 7.5 9.0 6.0 total market risk on investments 429.4 515.3 343.5 75 table of contents fair value fair value carrying assuming 20% assuming 20% $ in millions value increase decrease december 31, 2009 trading investments: investments related to deferred compensation plans 84.6 101.5 67.7 available-for-sale investments: seed money in affiliated funds 74.8 89.8 59.8 equity method investments 134.7 161.6 107.8 other 5.3 6.4 4.2 total market risk on investments 299.4 359.3 239.5 interest rate risk interest rate risk relates to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its external debt and cash and cash equivalent investments. on december 31, 2010, the interest rates on 56.7% of the company borrowings were fixed for a weighted average period of 2.4 years. borrowings under the credit facility will have floating interest rates. the interest rate profile of the financial assets of the company on december 31, 2010, was: fair value fair value assuming a assuming a carrying 1% interest -1% interest $ in millions value rate change rate change december 31, 2010 available-for-sale investments: collateralized loan obligations 0.5 0.5 0.5 foreign time deposits 28.2 28.3 28.2 total investments 28.7 28.3 28.2 december 31, 2009 available-for-sale investments: collateralized loan obligations 17.9 18.5 17.3 foreign time deposits 22.5 22.6 22.5 total investments 40.4 41.1 39.8 the interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the company on december 31 was: weighted weighted average average period for which interest rate is fixed $ in millions total floating rate fixed rate* rate (%) (years) 2010 currency: u.s. dollar 1,315.7 570.0 745.7 4.3 % 2.4 2009 currency: u.s. dollar 745.7 745.7 5.1 % 3.4 japanese yen 0.1 0.1 9.7 % 1.3 745.8 745.8 5.1 % 3.4 * measured at amortized cost. 76 table of contents see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data note 9, debt for additional disclosures relating to the u.s. dollar floating and fixed rate obligations. the company only fixed interest financial assets at december 31, 2010, are foreign time deposit investments of $28.2 million (2009: $22.5 million). the weighted average interest rate on these investments is 0.57% (2009: 0.74%) and the weighted average time for which the rate is fixed is 0.4 years (2009: 0.4 years). foreign exchange rate risk the company has transactional currency exposures that occur when any of the company subsidiaries receives or pays cash in a currency different from its functional currency. such exposure arises from sales or purchases by an operating unit in currencies other than the unit functional currency. these exposures are not actively managed. the company also has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets and results of operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risk when translated into u.s. dollars upon consolidation into invesco ltd. the company does not hedge these exposures. the company is exposed to foreign exchange revaluation into the income statement on monetary assets and liabilities that are held by subsidiaries in different functional currencies than the subsidiaries functional currencies. net foreign exchange revaluation losses were $1.0 million in 2010 (2009: gains of $7.6 million), and are included in general and administrative expenses and other gains and losses, net on the consolidated statements of income. we continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange revaluation. 77 table of contents supplementary quarterly financial data the following is selected unaudited consolidated data for invesco ltd. for the quarters indicated: $ in millions, except per share data q410 q310 q210 q110 q409 q309 q209 q109 operating revenues: investment management fees $ 773.7 $ 725.8 $ 627.9 $ 593.5 $ 611.8 $ 570.3 $ 501.6 $ 436.5 service and distribution fees 202.0 191.6 139.4 112.5 111.4 111.8 100.4 89.0 performance fees 18.7 2.5 3.5 1.4 6.8 4.3 8.0 10.9 other 34.1 33.2 16.2 11.7 17.8 19.4 15.1 12.2 total operating revenues 1,028.5 953.1 787.0 719.1 747.8 705.8 625.1 548.6 operating expenses: employee compensation 312.7 304.1 260.5 237.6 247.1 238.9 229.0 235.8 third-party distribution, service and advisory 289.9 266.5 220.7 195.6 195.4 183.5 166.3 148.2 marketing 51.3 44.8 35.2 28.3 30.4 27.7 23.9 26.9 property, office and technology 65.6 63.5 55.8 53.5 54.8 63.0 48.6 45.9 general and administrative 83.6 64.5 64.1 50.0 49.8 40.1 46.9 30.0 transaction and integration 26.7 26.8 79.3 17.2 9.8 1.0 total operating expenses 829.8 770.2 715.6 582.2 587.3 554.2 514.7 486.8 operating income 198.7 182.9 71.4 136.9 160.5 151.6 110.4 61.8 other income/(expense): equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 13.3 10.7 10.4 5.8 9.1 7.9 7.5 2.5 interest income 3.6 3.4 1.8 1.6 2.1 1.7 1.2 4.8 interest income of consolidated investment products 65.0 70.3 53.1 52.5 gains/(losses) of consolidated investment products, net (28.0 ) (148.3 ) 187.2 103.1 25.9 2.1 (48.4 ) (86.5 ) interest expense (16.0 ) (16.1 ) (14.1 ) (12.4 ) (15.2 ) (16.9 ) (16.5 ) (15.9 ) interest expense of consolidated investment products (36.6 ) (35.6 ) (25.6 ) (20.8 ) other gains and losses, net 12.4 14.6 (9.3 ) (2.1 ) 2.0 10.0 (4.2 ) income/(loss) before income taxes, including gains and losses attributable to noncontrolling interests 212.4 81.9 274.9 264.6 182.4 148.4 64.2 (37.5 ) income tax provision (55.7 ) (54.5 ) (36.7 ) (50.1 ) (48.2 ) (43.7 ) (36.0 ) (20.3 ) net income/(loss), including gains and losses attributable to noncontrolling interests 156.7 27.4 238.2 214.5 134.2 104.7 28.2 (57.8 ) (gains)/losses attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated entities, net 18.5 127.3 (197.4 ) (119.5 ) (23.3 ) 0.5 47.5 88.5 net income attributable to common shareholders $ 175.2 $ 154.7 $ 40.8 $ 95.0 $ 110.9 $ 105.2 $ 75.7 $ 30.7 earnings per share*: basic $ 0.37 $ 0.32 $ 0.09 $ 0.22 $ 0.26 $ 0.24 $ 0.18 $ 0.08 diluted $ 0.37 $ 0.32 $ 0.09 $ 0.21 $ 0.25 $ 0.24 $ 0.18 $ 0.08 average shares outstanding*: basic 470.5 476.6 455.0 439.0 434.1 431.6 410.6 394.1 diluted 473.1 479.1 457.8 442.4 440.1 437.7 416.8 399.9 dividends declared per share: $ 0.11 $ 0.11 $ 0.11 $ 0.1025 $ 0.1025 $ 0.1025 $ 0.1025 $ 0.10 * the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may differ from the annual earnings per share amounts due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in interim periods. 78 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors our revenues would be adversely affected by any reduction in assets under our management as a result of either a decline in market value of such assets or net outflows, which would reduce the investment management fees we earn. we derive substantially all of our revenues from investment management contracts with clients. under these contracts, the investment management fees paid to us are typically based on the market value from time to time of assets under management. assets under management may decline for various reasons. for any period in which revenues decline, our income and operating margin may decline by a greater proportion because certain expenses remain relatively fixed. factors that could decrease assets under management (and therefore revenues) include the following: declines in the market value of the assets in the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by price declines in the securities markets generally or by price declines in the market segments in which those assets are concentrated. approximately 49.6% of our total assets under management were invested in equity securities and approximately 50.4% were invested in fixed income and other securities at december 31, 2007. through the date of the filing of the annual report on form 10-k with the sec, markets continue to be volatile, and our aum as of january 31, 2008 had fallen 4.9% from year-end levels. we cannot predict whether the continued volatility in the markets will result in substantial or sustained declines in the securities markets generally or result in price declines in market segments in which our assets under management are concentrated. any of the foregoing could negatively impact our revenues, income and operating margin. redemptions and other withdrawals from, or shifting among, the funds and accounts managed. these could be caused by investors (in response to adverse market conditions or pursuit of other investment opportunities) reducing their investments in funds and accounts in general or in the market segments on which invesco focuses; investors taking profits from their investments; poor investment performance of the funds and accounts managed by invesco; and portfolio risk characteristics, which could cause investors to move assets to other investment managers. poor performance relative to other investment management firms tends to result in decreased sales, increased redemptions of fund shares, and the loss of private institutional or individual accounts, with corresponding decreases in our revenues. failure of our funds and accounts to perform well could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. furthermore, the fees we earn vary with the types of assets being managed, with higher fees earned on actively managed equity and balanced accounts, along with real estate and alternative asset products, and lower fees earned on fixed income and stable return accounts. therefore, our revenues may decline if clients shift their investments to lower fee accounts. declines in the value of seed capital and partnership investments. the company has investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes, including but not limited to equities, fixed income products, and real estate. investments in these products are generally made to establish a track record. adverse market conditions may result in the need to write down the value of these seed investments. as of december 31, 2007 the company had $113.6 million in seed capital and partnership investments. 9 table of contents our investment advisory agreements are subject to termination or non-renewal, and our fund and other investors may withdraw their assets at any time. substantially all of our revenues are derived from investment advisory agreements. investment advisory agreements are generally terminable upon 30 or fewer days notice. agreements with u.s. mutual funds may be terminated with notice, or terminated in the event of an assignment (as defined in the investment company act), and must be renewed annually by the disinterested members of each fund board of directors or trustees, as required by law. in addition, the board of trustees or directors of certain other funds accounts of invesco or our subsidiaries generally may terminate these investment advisory agreements upon written notice for any reason. mutual fund and unit trust investors may generally withdraw their funds at any time without prior notice. institutional clients may elect to terminate their relationships with us or reduce the aggregate amount of assets under our management, and individual clients may elect to close their accounts, redeem their shares in our funds, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures. any termination of or failure to renew a significant number of these agreements, or any other loss of a significant number of our clients or assets under management, would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. our revenues and profitability from money market and other fixed-income assets may be harmed by interest rate, liquidity and credit volatility. in a rising-rate environment, certain institutional investors using money market products and other short-term duration fixed-income products for cash management purposes may shift these investments to direct investments in comparable instruments in order to realize higher yields than those available in money market and other fund products holding lower yielding instruments. these redemptions would reduce managed assets, thereby reducing our revenues. in addition, rising interest rates will tend to reduce the market value of bonds held in various investment portfolios and other products. thus, increases in interest rates could have an adverse effect on our revenues from money market portfolios and from other fixed-income products. if securities within a money market portfolio default, or investor redemptions force the portfolio to realize losses, there could be negative pressure on its net asset value. although money market investments are not guaranteed instruments, the company might decide, under such a scenario, that it is in its best interest to provide support in the form of a support agreement, capital infusion, or other methods to help stabilize a declining net asset value. some of these methods could have an adverse impact on our profitability. additionally, we have $39.0 million of equity at risk invested in our collateralized loan and debt obligation products, the valuation of which could change with changes in interest and default rates. we have no significant or direct exposure to sivs or sub-prime commercial paper. we operate in an industry that is highly regulated in the u.s. and numerous foreign countries, and any adverse changes in the regulations governing our business could decrease our revenues and profitability. as with all investment management companies, our activities are highly regulated in almost all countries in which we conduct business. laws and regulations applied at the national, state or provincial and local level generally grant governmental agencies and industry self-regulatory authorities broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict business activities. possible sanctions include the revocation of licenses to operate certain businesses, the suspension or expulsion from a particular jurisdiction or market of any of our business organizations or their key personnel, the imposition of fines and censures on us or our employees and the imposition of additional capital requirements. it is also possible that laws and regulations governing our operations or particular investment products could be amended or interpreted in a manner that is adverse to us. certain of our subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum levels of capital. these and other similar provisions of applicable law may have the effect of limiting withdrawals of capital, repayment of intercompany loans and payment of dividends by such entities. after redomicile and after consultation with the u.k. financial services authority (fsa), it has been determined that, for the purposes of prudential supervision, invesco ltd. is not subject to regulatory consolidated capital requirements under current european union (eu) directives. a sub-group, however, including all of our regulated eu subsidiaries, is subject to these consolidated capital requirements, and capital is maintained within this sub-group to satisfy these regulations. at december 31, 2007, the european sub-group had cash and cash equivalent balances of $758.1 million, much of which is used to satisfy these regulatory requirements. complying with our regulatory commitments may result in an increase in the capital requirements applicable to the european sub-group. as a result of corporate restructuring and the regulatory undertakings that we have given, certain of these eu subsidiaries may be required to limit their distributions. we cannot guarantee that further corporate restructuring will not be required to comply with applicable legislation. 10 table of contents the regulatory environment in which we operate frequently changes and has seen significant increased regulation in recent years. we may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations or by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations. to the extent that existing regulations are amended or future regulations are adopted that reduce the sale, or increase the redemptions, of our products and services, or that negatively affect the investment performance of our products, our aggregate assets under management and our revenues could be adversely affected. in addition, regulatory changes could impose additional costs which could negatively impact our profitability. civil litigation and governmental enforcement actions and investigations could adversely affect our assets under management and future financial results, and increase our costs of doing business. invesco and certain related entities have in recent years been subject to various legal proceedings arising from normal business operations and/or matters that have been the subject of previous regulatory actions. see part i, item 3, legal proceedings, for additional information. our investment management professionals and other key employees are a vital part of our ability to attract and retain clients, and the loss of a significant portion of those professionals could result in a reduction of our revenues and profitability. retaining highly skilled technical and management personnel is important to our ability to attract and retain clients and retail shareholder accounts. the market for investment management professionals is competitive and has grown more so in recent periods as the investment management industry has experienced growth. the market for investment managers is also increasingly characterized by the movement of investment managers among different firms. our policy has been to provide our investment management professionals with compensation and benefits that we believe are competitive with other leading investment management firms. however, we may not be successful in retaining our key personnel, and the loss of a significant portion, either in quality or quantity, of our investment management personnel could reduce the attractiveness of our products to potential and current clients and could, therefore, adversely affect our revenues and profitability. during 2007, several members of our stable value team departed for a competitor, which resulted in net outflows of aum of $16.2 billion. if our reputation is harmed, we could suffer losses in our business, revenues and net income. our business depends on earning and maintaining the trust and confidence of clients, regulators and other market participants, and the resulting good reputation is critical to our business. our reputation is vulnerable to many threats that can be difficult or impossible to control, and costly or impossible to remediate. regulatory inquiries, employee misconduct and rumors, among other things, can substantially damage our reputation, even if they are baseless or satisfactorily addressed. any damage to our reputation could impede our ability to attract and retain clients and key personnel, and lead to a reduction in the amount of our assets under management, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. competitive pressures may force us to reduce the fees we charge to clients, increase commissions paid to our financial intermediaries or provide more support to those intermediaries, all of which could reduce our profitability. the investment management business is highly competitive, and we compete based on a variety of factors, including investment performance, the range of products offered, brand recognition, business reputation, financing strength, strength and continuity of client and intermediary relationships, quality of service, level of fees charged for services and the level of compensation paid and distribution support offered to financial intermediaries. we continue to face market pressures regarding fee levels in certain products. we face strong competition in every market in which we operate. our competitors include a large number of investment management firms, commercial banks, investment banks, broker-dealers, hedge funds, insurance companies and other financial institutions. some of these institutions have greater capital and other resources, and offer more comprehensive lines of products and services, than we do. the recent trend toward consolidation within the investment management industry has served to increase the strength of a number of our competitors. these 11 table of contents strengthened competitors seek to expand their market share in many of the products and services we offer. if these competitors are successful, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, there are relatively few barriers to entry by new investment management firms, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various distribution channels around the world have also resulted in increased competition. we may engage in strategic transactions that could create risks. as part of our business strategy, we regularly review, and from time to time have discussions with respect to potential strategic transactions, including potential acquisitions, dispositions, consolidations, joint ventures or similar transactions, some of which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will find suitable candidates for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to accomplish such transactions, or be successful in entering into agreements for desired transactions. acquisitions, including completed acquisitions, also pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose customers or employees or could underperform relative to expectations. we could also experience financial or other setbacks if transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to execution or integration. following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, to the acquired business for a period of time. there can be no assurance that the seller will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position. we have a significant amount of indebtedness. as of december 31, 2007, we had outstanding total long-term debt of $1,276.4 million (which excludes $116.6 million of debt held by consolidated investment products) and shareholders equity of $6,590.6 million. the significant amount of indebtedness we carry could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements or other purposes, increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or industry, and place us at a disadvantage in relation to our competitors. any or all of the above factors could materially adversely affect our financial position. we have received credit ratings of a3 and bbb from moody and standard poor credit rating agencies, respectively, as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k. both standard poor and moody have a stable outlook for the rating as of the date of this annual report on form 10-k. we believe that rating agency concerns include but are not limited to: our ability to sustain net positive asset flows across customer channels, product type and geographies, our substantial indebtedness, and our ability to maintain consistent positive investment performance. material deterioration of these factors, and others defined by each rating agency, could result in downgrades to our credit ratings, thereby limiting our ability to generate additional financing or receive mandates. management believes that solid investment grade ratings are an important factor in winning and maintaining institutional business and strives to manage the company to maintain such ratings. our credit facility imposes restrictions on our ability to conduct business and, if amounts borrowed under it were to be accelerated, we might not have sufficient assets to repay such amounts in full. our credit facility requires us to maintain specified financial ratios, including maximum debt-to-earnings and minimum interest coverage ratios. this credit facility also contains customary affirmative operating covenants and negative covenants that, among other things, restrict certain of our subsidiaries ability to incur debt and restrict our ability to transfer assets, merge, make loans and other investments and create liens. the breach of any covenant would result in a default under the credit facility. in the event of any such default, lenders that are party to the credit facility could refuse to make further extensions of credit to us and require all amounts borrowed under the credit facility, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. if any indebtedness under the credit facility were to be accelerated, we might not have sufficient liquid assets to repay such indebtedness in full. changes in the distribution channels on which we depend could reduce our revenues and hinder our growth. we sell a portion of our investment products through a variety of financial intermediaries, including major wire houses, regional broker-dealers, banks and financial planners in north america, and independent brokers and financial advisors, banks and financial organizations in europe and asia. increasing competition for these distribution channels could cause our distribution costs to rise, which would lower our net revenues. additionally, certain of the intermediaries upon whom we rely to distribute our investment products also sell their own competing 12 table of contents proprietary funds and investment products, which could limit the distribution of our products. in addition, some investors rely on third-party financial planners, registered investment advisers, and other consultants or financial professionals to advise them on the choice of investment adviser and investment portfolio. these professionals and consultants could favor a competing investment portfolio as better meeting their particular client needs. there is no assurance that our investment products will be among their recommended choices in the future. additionally, if one of our major distributors were to cease operations, it could have a significant adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. moreover, any failure to maintain strong business relationships with these distribution sources would impair our ability to sell our products, which could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. we could be subject to losses if we fail to properly safeguard confidential and sensitive information. we maintain and transmit confidential information about our clients as well as proprietary information relating to our business operations as part of our regular operations. our systems could be attacked by unauthorized users or corrupted by computer viruses or other malicious software code, or authorized persons could inadvertently or intentionally release confidential or proprietary information. such disclosure could, among other things, damage our reputation, allow competitors to access our proprietary business information, result in liability for failure to safeguard our clients data, result in the termination of contracts by our existing customers, subject us to regulatory action, or require material capital and operating expenditures to investigate and remediate the breach. our business is vulnerable to failures in support systems and customer service functions that could lead to loss of customers, breaches and errors, or claims against us or our subsidiaries. the ability to consistently and reliably obtain securities pricing information, process client portfolio and fund shareholder transactions and provide reports and other customer service to fund shareholders and investors in other accounts managed by us is essential to our continuing success. any delays or inaccuracies in obtaining pricing information, processing such transactions or such reports, other breaches and errors, and any inadequacies in other customer service, could result in reimbursement obligations or other liabilities, or alienate customers and potentially give rise to claims against us. our customer service capability, as well as our ability to obtain prompt and accurate securities pricing information and to process transactions and reports, is highly dependent on communications and information systems and on third-party vendors. these systems could suffer failures or interruptions due to various natural or man-made causes, and our back-up procedures and capabilities may not be adequate to avoid extended interruptions in operations. other similar problems could occur from time to time due to human error. if we are unable to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity problem, we could suffer material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. if we were to experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as a pandemic or other natural or man-made disaster, our continued success will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, our operational size, the multiple locations from which we operate, and our existing back-up systems would provide us with an important advantage. nevertheless, we could still experience near-term operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or technology personnel. further, as we expand our operations in particular areas, such as india, the potential for particular types of natural or man-made disasters, political, economic or infrastructure instabilities, or other country- or region-specific business continuity risks increases. although we seek to regularly assess and improve our existing business continuity plans, a major disaster, or one that affected certain important operating areas, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. since many of our subsidiary operations are located outside of the united states and have functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, changes in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar may affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. the largest component of our net assets, revenues and expenses, as well as our assets under management, is presently derived from the united states. however, we have a large number of subsidiaries outside of the united states whose functional currencies are not the u.s. dollar. 13 table of contents as a result, fluctuations in the exchange rates to the u.s. dollar may affect our reported financial results from one period to the next. we do not actively manage our exposure to such effects. consequently, changes in exchange rates to the u.s. dollar could have a material negative impact on our reported financial results. the carrying value of goodwill on our balance sheet could become impaired, which would adversely affect our results of operations. we have goodwill on our balance sheet that is subject to an annual impairment review. goodwill totaled $6,848.0 million at december 31, 2007 (2006: $6,360.7 million). we may not realize the value of such goodwill. we perform impairment reviews of the book values of goodwill on an annual basis. a variety of factors could cause such book values to become impaired. should valuations be deemed to be impaired, a write-down of the related asset would occur, adversely affecting our results of operations for the period. bermuda law differs from the laws in effect in the united states and may afford less protection to shareholders. our shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction of the united states. as a bermuda company, we are governed by the companies act 1981 of bermuda ( companies act ). the companies act differs in some material respects from laws generally applicable to united states corporations and shareholders, including provisions relating to interested directors, mergers, amalgamations and acquisitions, takeovers, shareholder lawsuits and indemnification of directors. under bermuda law, the duties of directors and officers of a company are generally owed to the company only. shareholders of bermuda companies do not generally have rights to take action against directors or officers of the company, and may only do so in limited circumstances. directors and officers may owe duties to a company creditors in cases of impending insolvency. directors and officers of a bermuda company must, in exercising their powers and performing their duties, act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the company and must exercise the care and skill that a reasonably prudent person would exercise in comparable circumstances. directors have a duty not to put themselves in a position in which their duties to the company and their personal interests may conflict and also are under a duty to disclose any personal interest in any material contract or proposed material contract with the company or any of its subsidiaries. if a director or officer of a bermuda company is found to have breached his duties to that company, he may be held personally liable to the company in respect of that breach of duty. our bye-laws provide for indemnification of our directors and officers in respect of any loss arising or liability attaching to them in respect of any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to us other than in respect of his own fraud or dishonesty, which is the maximum extent of indemnification permitted under the companies act. under our bye-laws, each of our shareholders agrees to waive any claim or right of action, other than those involving fraud, against us or any of our officers or directors. legislative and other measures that may be taken by u.s. and/or other governmental authorities could materially increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial conditions, results of operations or cash flows. under current laws, as the company is domiciled and tax resident in bermuda, taxation in other jurisdictions is dependent upon the types and the extent of the activities of the company undertaken in those jurisdictions. there is a risk that changes in either the types of activities undertaken by the company or changes in tax rules relating to tax residency could subject the company and its shareholders to additional taxation. additionally, under existing u.s. tax rules earnings from non-u.s. subsidiaries of the company are not subject to u.s. taxation. we continue to assess the impact of various u.s. federal and state legislative proposals, and modifications to existing tax treaties between the united states and foreign countries, that could result in a material increase in our u.s. federal and state taxes. more recently, several proposals have been introduced in the u.s. congress that, if ultimately enacted, could limit treaty benefits on certain payments made by our u.s. subsidiaries to non-u.s. affiliates. we cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. however, if such proposals were to be enacted, or if modifications were to be made to certain existing tax treaties, the consequences could have a materially adverse impact on the company, including increasing our tax burden, increasing costs of our tax compliance or otherwise adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 14 table of contents examinations and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. the company and its subsidiaries income tax returns periodically are examined by various tax authorities. the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. we recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. we adjust these liabilities in light of changing facts and circumstances. due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, however, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the normal course of its business, the company is primarily exposed to market risk in the form of market risk, interest rate risk, and foreign exchange rate risk. aum market price risk the company investment management revenues are comprised of fees based on a percentage of the value of aum. declines in equity or fixed income security market prices could cause revenues to decline because of lower investment management fees by: causing the value of aum to decrease. causing the returns realized on aum to decrease. causing clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments in markets that they perceive to offer greater opportunity and that the company does not serve. causing clients to rebalance assets away from investments that the company manages into investments that the company does not manage. causing clients to reallocated assets away from products that earn higher revenues into products that earn lower revenues. underperformance of client accounts relative to competing products could exacerbate these factors. market risk the company has investments in sponsored investment products that invest in a variety of asset classes. investments are generally made to establish a track record or to hedge exposure to certain deferred compensation plans. the company exposure to market risk arises from its investments. the following table summarizes the fair values of the investments exposed to market risk and provides a sensitivity analysis of the estimated fair values of those investments, assuming a 10% increase or decrease in fair values: 48 table of contents fair value fair value carrying assuming 10% assuming 10% $ in millions value increase decrease december 31, 2007 trading investments: investments related to deferred compensation plans 58.8 64.7 52.9 other 27.8 30.6 25.0 total trading investments 86.6 95.3 77.9 available-for-sale investments: seed money in affiliated funds 60.9 67.0 54.8 other 8.6 9.5 7.7 total available-for-sale investments 69.5 76.5 62.5 equity method investments 74.7 82.2 67.2 total market risk on investments 230.8 254.0 207.6 $ in millions december 31, 2006 trading investments: equity 64.8 71.3 58.3 other 1.9 2.1 1.7 total trading investments 66.7 73.4 60.0 available-for-sale investments: seed money in affiliated funds 97.1 106.8 87.4 other 13.5 14.9 12.2 total available-for-sale investments 110.6 121.7 99.6 equity method investments 18.4 20.2 16.6 total market risk on investments 195.7 215.3 176.2 49 table of contents interest rate risk interest rate risk relates to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. the company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily through its external debt and cash and cash equivalent investments. on december 31, 2007, the interest rates on 90% of the company borrowings were fixed for an average period of 4 years. the remainder of the company borrowings were floating. the interest rate profile of the financial assets of the company on december 31, 2007 was: fair value fair value assuming a assuming a carrying 1% interest -1% interest $ in millions value rate change rate change december 31, 2007 available-for-sale investments: collateralized debt obligations 39.0 38.1 39.4 foreign time deposits 22.7 22.6 22.8 other 1.0 1.0 1.0 total available-for-sale investments 62.7 61.7 63.2 u.s. treasury and governmental agency securities 6.0 6.0 6.0 total investments 68.7 67.7 69.2 december 31, 2006 available-for-sale investments: collateralized debt obligations 48.9 48.2 50.0 foreign time deposits 11.1 11.0 11.2 other 1.0 1.0 1.0 total available-for-sale investments 61.0 60.2 62.2 u.s. treasury and governmental agency securities 11.0 10.9 11.1 total investments 72.0 71.1 73.3 the interest rate profile of the financial liabilities of the company on december 31 was: weighted weighted average average period for which interest rate is fixed $ in millions total floating rate fixed rate* rate (%) (years) 2007 currency: u.s. dollar 1,276.4 126.4 1,150.0 5.2 4.4 japanese yen 0.4 0.4 9.3 3.0 1,276.8 126.4 1,150.4 5.2 4.4 2006 currency: u.s. dollar 1,279.0 129.0 1,150.0 5.3 4.0 japanese yen 0.5 0.5 9.4 4.0 1,279.5 129.0 1,150.5 5.3 4.0 * measured at amortized cost. see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data note 10, long-term debt for additional disclosures relating to the u.s. dollar floating and fixed rate obligations. a 1.0% increase in interest rates would have increased the recorded interest expense on the floating rate debt by $1.3 million. the company only fixed interest financial assets at december 31, 2007 are in foreign time deposit investments of $22.7 million (2006: $11.1 million) and in u.s. treasury and u.s. governmental agency securities of $6.0 million (2006: $11.0 million). the weighted average interest rate on these investments is 2.63% (2006: 2.89%) and the average weighted time for which the rate is fixed is 0.4 years (2006: 0.7 years). 50 table of contents foreign exchange rate risk the company has transactional currency exposures that occur when any of the company subsidiaries receives or pays cash in a currency different from its functional currency. such exposure arises from sales or purchases by an operating unit in currencies other than the unit functional currency. these exposures are not actively managed. the company also has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets and related goodwill are exposed to foreign currency translation risk. the company does not hedge these exposures. prior to the redenomination of the share capital of the parent and the change in its functional currency from sterling to u.s. dollars, the company designated its u.s. dollar senior note balances as hedges against its net investments in its u.s. subsidiaries. part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data note 10, long-term debt details the fair values of the u.s. dollar senior notes (the hedging instruments) at december 31, 2007 and 2006. gains or losses on the retranslation of these borrowings were transferred to equity to offset any gains and losses on the net investments in subsidiaries. during 2005, the company recorded a charge of $6.8 million within other realized losses on the consolidated statement of income related to the unhedged portion of debt. the company is exposed to foreign exchange revaluation into the income statement on monetary assets and liabilities that are held by subsidiaries in different functional currencies than the subsidiaries functional currencies. net foreign exchange revaluation losses were $10.3 million in 2007 (2006: gain of $8.5 million), and are included in other gains and losses, net on the consolidated statements of income. we continue to monitor our exposure to foreign exchange revaluation. 51 table of contents supplementary quarterly financial data the following is selected unaudited consolidated data for invesco ltd. for the quarters ended: $ in millions, except per share data q407 q307 q207 q107 q406 q306 q206 q106 operating revenues investment management fees $ 816.4 $ 791.7 $ 765.7 $ 706.3 $ 688.2 $ 626.3 $ 611.9 $ 581.8 performance fees 13.1 4.0 34.4 18.8 25.9 10.4 12.6 33.2 service and distribution fees 150.8 150.7 148.2 143.4 135.4 130.8 133.0 135.7 other 42.8 30.2 30.7 31.7 22.1 21.2 33.5 44.7 total operating revenues 1,023.1 976.6 979.0 900.2 871.6 788.7 791.0 795.4 operating expenses employee compensation 286.3 278.1 288.9 284.3 273.2 289.7 252.8 254.8 third-party distribution, service and advisory 284.9 270.8 263.0 232.4 223.5 204.2 200.2 198.9 marketing 43.9 40.9 35.8 37.0 37.0 30.8 35.2 35.8 property, office and technology 60.3 66.6 58.2 57.4 57.4 57.5 56.9 58.9 general and administrative 104.0 63.7 71.1 57.0 38.9 59.8 58.8 63.2 total operating expenses 779.4 720.1 717.0 668.1 630.0 642.0 603.9 611.6 operating income 243.7 256.5 262.0 232.1 241.6 146.7 187.1 183.8 other income/(expense) equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates 21.0 14.9 6.4 5.8 2.3 0.8 0.9 0.3 interest income 11.8 14.1 12.3 10.3 10.0 6.6 5.2 5.1 realized and unrealized gains of consolidated investment products, net 55.8 58.7 69.8 30.0 182.8 41.4 38.9 31.2 interest expense (17.7 ) (16.4 ) (18.6 ) (18.6 ) (20.9 ) (19.7 ) (19.3 ) (17.3 ) other gains and losses, net 6.3 (3.7 ) (0.2 ) 7.5 12.4 11.1 6.4 (3.1 ) income before income taxes and minority interest 320.9 324.1 331.7 267.1 428.2 186.9 219.2 200.0 income tax provision (91.3 ) (92.7 ) (91.4 ) (81.9 ) (83.4 ) (47.6 ) (65.4 ) (58.2 ) income before minority interest 229.6 231.4 240.3 185.2 344.8 139.3 153.8 141.8 minority interest income of consolidated entities, net of tax (53.7 ) (64.4 ) (64.8 ) (30.0 ) (179.6 ) (38.0 ) (37.4 ) (42.0 ) net income $ 175.9 $ 167.0 $ 175.5 $ 155.2 $ 165.2 $ 101.3 $ 116.4 $ 99.8 earnings per share *: basic $ 0.45 $ 0.42 $ 0.44 $ 0.39 $ 0.42 $ 0.26 $ 0.30 $ 0.25 diluted $ 0.43 $ 0.41 $ 0.43 $ 0.38 $ 0.40 $ 0.25 $ 0.29 $ 0.25 average shares outstanding *: basic 393.6 400.0 399.9 398.9 397.9 395.2 391.6 395.4 diluted 407.6 410.5 410.6 410.1 408.2 404.8 402.0 405.1 dividends declared per share *: $ 0.164 $ 0.208 $ 0.154 $ 0.203 * all per share amounts have been adjusted to reflect the impact of the december 4, 2007 one-for-two reverse stock split. see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data note 1, accounting policies for additional details. the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may differ from the annual earnings per share amounts due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in interim periods. 52 table of contents