risk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors, regional and grade differentials and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, product and crude pipeline capacities, changes in transportation costs, accidents or interruptions in transportation, competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve, and factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates based upon worldwide and local market conditions. our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. for example, the reversal of certain existing pipelines or the construction of certain new pipelines transporting additional crude oil or refined products to markets that serve competing refineries could affect the market dynamic that has allowed us to take advantage of favorable pricing. additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results therefore depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flow. also, crude oil supply contracts are generally short-term contracts with market-responsive pricing provisions. we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. further, if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, if we are unsuccessful in integrating the operations of assets we acquire, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. additionally, our growth strategy includes projects that permit access to new and/or more profitable markets. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control, including: denial or delay in issuing requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; 21 table of content compliance with or liability under environmental regulations; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires, spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project. for example, there may be a delay in obtaining the necessary permits or regulatory approvals for the expansion at the woods cross refinery, or our request for the necessary permits or regulatory approvals may be denied. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. an additional component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations and inefficiencies that may result therefrom; difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; difficulties or delays in achieving anticipated operational improvements or benefits; incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. any acquisitions that we do consummate may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. 22 table of content we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. this may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. the domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions are disrupted and volatile from time to time due to a variety of factors, including low consumer confidence, high unemployment, geoeconomic and geopolitical issues, weak economic conditions and uncertainty in the financial services sector. in addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility, which negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. as a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from these markets diminished significantly. in particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease, to provide funding to borrowers. in addition, lending counterparties under existing revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be required to sell assets. moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or construction projects, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, comply with regulatory requirements, or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. failure to comply with regulatory requirements in a timely manner or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements could subject us to regulatory action. we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, energy, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal or may require operational changes, which may involve significant costs. furthermore, a violation of permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or refinery shutdowns. in addition, major modifications of our operations due to changes in the law could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. over the years, there have been and continue to be ongoing communications, including notices of violations, and discussions about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed. we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. failure to appropriately manage occupational health and safety risks associated with our business could also adversely impact employees, communities, stakeholders, our reputation and our results of operations. 23 table of content we cannot predict what additional health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. however, new environmental laws and regulations, including new regulations relating to alternative energy sources and the risk of global climate change, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. the epa has begun regulating certain emissions of greenhouse gases, or ghgs, (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) from large stationary sources like refineries under the authority of the caa, and it is possible that congress could pass federal legislation that creates a comprehensive ghg regulatory program, either directly or indirectly, such as via a federal renewal energy standard. also, new federal or state legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of ghgs in areas where we conduct business could adversely affect demand for our products and our results of operations. the costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. from time to time, new federal energy policy legislation is enacted by the u.s. congress. for example, in december 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act, which, among other provisions, mandates annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. these statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. in the near term, the new renewable fuel standard presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining industries and may require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased ethanol use. other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties, and item 3, legal proceedings. the adoption of climate change legislation by congress could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce. in december 2009, the epa determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other ghgs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal caa. the epa also adopted two sets of rules regulating ghg emissions under the caa, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of ghgs from motor vehicles and the other of which may require permits for emissions of ghgs from certain large stationary sources. the epa's rules relating to emissions of ghgs from large stationary sources of emissions were upheld by the d.c. circuit, but numerous parties are expected to seek u.s. supreme court review of that decision in 2013. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions from specified large ghg emission sources in the united states, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis. the epa has also announced its intention to issue a new source performance standard directly regulating ghg emissions from refineries. in addition, the u.s. congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs primarily through the planned development of ghg emission inventories and/or regional ghg cap and trade programs. these cap and trade programs generally work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and on an annual basis surrender emission allowances. the number of allowances available for purchase is reduced over time in an effort to achieve the overall ghg emission reduction goal. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the refined products that we produce. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 table of content in addition, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. information technology system failures, network disruptions (whether intentional by a third party or due to natural disaster), breaches of network or data security, or disruption or failure of the network system used to monitor and control pipeline operations could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future major capital investment, various environmental compliance related projects, regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may not produce a return on investment. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. one or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. we have taken significant measures to expand and upgrade units in our refineries by installing new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve refinery capacity. the installation and redesign of key equipment at our refineries involves significant uncertainties, including the following: our upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels; operating costs of the upgraded equipment may be higher than expected; the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design and/or specifications and redesign, modification or replacement of the equipment may be required to correct equipment that does not perform as expected, which could require facility shutdowns until the equipment has been redesigned or modified. any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment, or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we expect to execute turnarounds at our refineries, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties. these risks include delays and incurrence of additional and unforeseen costs. the turnarounds allow us to perform maintenance, upgrades, overhaul and repair of process equipment and materials, during which time all or a portion of the refinery will be under scheduled downtime. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, power failures, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage or destruction of property, as well as a curtailment or an interruption in our operations and may affect our ability to meet marketing commitments. we maintain significant insurance coverage, but it does not cover all potential losses, costs or liabilities, and our business interruption insurance coverage generally does not apply unless a business interruption exceeds 45 days. if any refinery were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. 25 table of content the availability of adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control, resulting in the inability to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase or, in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. we could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. the occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. in recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. as a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. in addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. further, our underwriters could have credit issues that affect their ability to pay claims. the unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry. we are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. the markets in which we compete may be impacted by competitors' plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. the more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. there are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the united states. 26 table of content a material decrease in the supply of crude oil available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels. to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. in addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries or the potential operation of a new, converted or expanded crude oil pipeline that transports crude oil to other markets could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. if we are unable to secure additional crude oil supplies of sufficient quality or crude pipeline expansion to our refineries, we will be unable to take full advantage of current and future expansion of our refineries' production capacities. a disruption to or proration of the refined product distribution systems we utilize could negatively impact our profitability. we utilize various common carrier or other third party pipeline systems to deliver our products to market. the key systems utilized by cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross, and tulsa are rocky mountain, nustar energy, sfpp and plains, chevron, and magellan, respectively. all five refineries also utilize systems owned by hep. if these key pipelines or their associated tanks and terminals become inoperative or decrease the capacity available to us, we may not be able to sell our product, or we may be required to hold our product in inventory or supply products to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by rail or additional tanker trucks from the refinery, all of which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability. the potential operation of new or expanded refined product transportation pipelines could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets. the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the navajo refinery include longhorn, kinder morgan, plains, hep, and nustar energy. the longhorn pipeline is a common carrier pipeline that supplies the el paso market with refined products from refineries as distant as the texas gulf coast. flying j formerly owned the longhorn pipeline prior to its bankruptcy in 2008. in addition to supplying arizona markets from el paso, kinder morgan also supplies arizona markets from the west coast. the plains pipeline currently supplies new mexico markets from el paso. in addition, nustar energy lp and hep own pipelines into the el paso and new mexico markets. the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the woods cross refinery include chevron, pioneer, and yellowstone pipelines. the chevron system transports products from salt lake city to idaho and eastern washington. the pioneer pipeline transports products from wyoming and montana refineries into salt lake city. the yellowstone pipeline transports products from montana refineries into eastern washington. the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the tulsa and el dorado refineries include magellan, explorer, and kaneb pipelines. the explorer pipeline transports refined products from gulf coast refineries to tulsa where it interconnects with magellan prior to proceeding to the chicago area. the kaneb pipeline transports refined products from northern texas, oklahoma, and kansas refineries to markets in kansas, nebraska, iowa, north dakota, and south dakota. these markets are in close proximity to markets supplied by the magellan system. the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the cheyenne refinery include rocky mountain, magellan mountain, conoco, medicine bow, and nustar pipelines. the rocky mountain pipeline system which transports the cheyenne refinery's products to denver also transports refined products from wyoming and further north to cheyenne and denver. the medicine bow pipeline delivers refined products from sinclair wyoming. the magellan mountain pipeline delivers refined products directly from kansas but those products may be supplied all the way from the gulf coast. the conoco and nustar pipelines bring products in from the texas panhandle. the expansion of any of these pipelines, the conversion of existing pipelines into refined products, or the construction of a new pipeline into our markets could negatively impact the supply of refined products in our markets and our profitability. 27 table of content we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the crude supply and distribution network that serve our refineries and we own a significant equity interest in hep. we currently own a 44% interest in hep, including the 2% general partner interest. hep operates a system of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines, distribution terminals and refinery tankage in arizona, idaho, kansas, new mexico, oklahoma, texas, utah, washington and wyoming. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, by leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, by charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves our refineries in new mexico, utah, wyoming, kansas and oklahoma under several long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements expiring in 2019 through 2026. furthermore, our financial statements include the consolidated results of hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on its significant customers, including us; competition from other pipelines; environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations; operational hazards and risks; pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge; limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep's debt covenants; and other financial, operational and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect hep's as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as hep is a consolidated vie. additionally, these risks could affect hep's ability to continue operations which could affect their ability to serve our supply and distribution network needs. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. for risks related to hep's business, see item 1a of hep's annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2012 . we are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our key customers and vendors. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers. if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. in addition, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide us with products or services could result in higher costs or interfere with our ability to successfully conduct our business. any substantial increase in the nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers or vendors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on september 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are not known at this time. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. future terrorist attacks could lead to even stronger, more costly initiatives or regulatory requirements. uncertainty surrounding continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. in addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. 28 table of content our petroleum business' financial results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which may cause volatility in the price of our common stock. demand for gasoline products is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and road construction work. as a result, our results of operations for the first and fourth calendar quarters are generally lower than for those for the second and third quarters. the effects of seasonal demand for gasoline are partially offset by seasonality in demand for diesel fuel, which in the southwest region of the united states is generally higher in winter months as east-west trucking traffic moves south to avoid winter conditions on northern routes. however, unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and/or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which we sell our petroleum products could have the effect of reducing demand for gasoline and diesel fuel which could result in lower prices and reduce operating margins. increases in required fuel economy and regulation of co 2 emissions from motor vehicles may reduce demand for transportation fuels. in 2010, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) finalized new standards, raising the required corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) of the nation's passenger fleet by 40% to approximately 35 miles per gallon ( m.p.g. ) by 2016 and imposing the first-ever federal ghg emissions standards on cars and light trucks. in september 2011, the epa and the department of transportation finalized first-time standards for fuel economy of medium and heavy duty trucks. on august 28, 2012 the epa and nhtsa adopted standards through model year 2025 in two phases. the first phase establishes final standards for 2017-2021 model year vehicles that are projected to require 40.3 - 41.0 m.p.g. in model year 2021 on an average industry fleet-wide basis. the second phase of the cafe program represents non-final augural standards for 2022-2025 model year vehicles that are projected to require 48.7 - 49.7 m.p.g. in model year 2025, on an average industry fleet-wide basis. such increases in fuel economy standards, along with mandated increases in use of renewable fuels discussed above, could result in decreasing demand for petroleum fuels. decreasing demand for petroleum fuels could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operation. we may be unable to pay future regular and/or special dividends. we will only be able to pay dividends from our available cash on hand, cash from operations or borrowings under our credit agreement. the declaration of future regular and/or special dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, and restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. we cannot assure you that any dividends will be paid or the frequency of such payments. product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our operating responsibility on refined product pipelines is to insure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. if our quality control measures were to fail, we may have contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks or off-specification product could be sent to public gasoline stations. these types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers. product liability is a significant commercial risk. substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. there can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers. our hedging transactions may limit our gains and expose us to other risks. we periodically enter into derivative transactions as it relates to inventory levels and/or future production to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products and other feedstocks. these transactions limit our potential gains if commodity prices move above or below the certain price levels established by our hedging instruments. we hedge price risk on inventories above our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. consequently, our hedging results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. these transactions may also expose us to risks of financial losses; for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreements fails to perform its obligations under the agreements. 29 table of content changes in our credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. an unfavorable credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require credit enhancement. due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms or credit enhancement requirements on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. this in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at desired capacity. a failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. our debt agreements contain operating and financial restrictions that might constrain our business and financing activities. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facilities and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. for example, our revolving credit facility imposes usual and customary requirements for this type of credit facility, including: (i) maintenance of certain levels of the fixed charge coverage ratio; (ii) limitations on liens, investments, indebtedness and dividends; (iii) a prohibition on changes in control and (iv) restrictions on engaging in mergers, consolidations and sales of assets, entering into certain lease obligations, and making certain investments or capital expenditures. if we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in the credit facility or another event of default occurs under the facility, the maturity of the loan could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our future working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. should we desire to undertake a transaction that is prohibited by the covenants in our credit facilities, we will need to obtain consent under our credit facilities. such refinancing may not be possible or may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. in addition, our obligations under our credit facilities are secured by inventory, receivables and pledged cash assets. if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facilities when due, the lenders could seek to foreclose on the assets or we may be required to contribute additional capital to our subsidiaries. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business may suffer due to a change in the composition of our board of directors, or if any of our key senior executives or other key employees discontinue employment with us. furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance, non-compete agreements, or employment agreements with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. a shortage of trained workers due to retirements or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2012 , approximately 34% of our employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates. we may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. a failure to do so may increase our costs. in addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders plus (i) interest expense, net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under gaap; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda. years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 (in thousands) net income attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders $ 1,727,172 $ 1,023,397 $ 103,964 add income tax provision 1,027,962 581,991 59,312 add interest expense 104,186 78,323 74,196 subtract interest income (4,786 ) (1,284 ) (1,168 ) add depreciation and amortization 242,868 159,707 117,529 ebitda $ 3,097,402 $ 1,842,134 $ 353,833 50 table of content reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. refinery gross margin per barrel is the difference between average net sales price and average cost of products per barrel of produced refined products. net operating margin per barrel is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel of produced refined products. these two margins do not include the effect of depreciation and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. refinery gross and net operating margins below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for (i) net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold, and (ii) net operating margin and refinery gross margin. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. reconciliations of refined product sales from produced products sold to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 119.48 $ 118.82 $ 91.06 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 431,060 332,720 228,140 times number of days in period 366 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 18,850,116 $ 14,429,833 $ 7,582,666 total refined product sales $ 18,850,116 $ 14,429,833 $ 7,582,666 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 572,206 350,843 130,866 total refined product sales 19,422,322 14,780,676 7,713,532 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 505,971 558,855 459,743 add other refining segment revenue (3) 114,662 52,899 113,725 total refining segment revenue 20,042,955 15,392,430 8,287,000 add hep segment sales and other revenues 288,501 212,995 182,093 add corporate and other revenues 1,048 1,098 412 subtract consolidations and eliminations (241,780 ) (166,995 ) (146,576 ) sales and other revenues $ 20,090,724 $ 15,439,528 $ 8,322,929 51 table of content reconciliation of average cost of products per produced barrel sold to total cost of products sold years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 94.59 $ 98.18 $ 82.27 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 431,060 332,720 228,140 times number of days in period 366 365 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 14,923,271 $ 11,923,254 $ 6,850,713 total cost of products for produced products sold $ 14,923,271 $ 11,923,254 $ 6,850,713 add refined product costs from purchased products and rounding (1) 572,755 351,788 131,668 total cost of refined products sold 15,496,026 12,275,042 6,982,381 add crude oil cost of direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 492,790 550,619 454,566 add other refining segment cost of products sold (4) 90,132 18,672 73,410 total refining segment cost of products sold 16,078,948 12,844,333 7,510,357 subtract consolidations and eliminations (238,305 ) (164,255 ) (143,208 ) costs of products sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 15,840,643 $ 12,680,078 $ 7,367,149 reconciliation of average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 5.49 $ 5.36 $ 5.08 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 431,060 332,720 228,140 times number of days in period 366 365 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 866,146 $ 650,933 $ 423,017 total refinery operating expenses per produced products sold $ 866,146 $ 650,933 $ 423,017 add other refining segment operating expenses and rounding (5) 37,231 35,659 26,573 total refining segment operating expenses 903,377 686,592 449,590 add hep segment operating expenses 89,395 63,029 53,138 add corporate and other costs 2,721 427 2,172 subtract consolidations and eliminations (527 ) (1,967 ) (486 ) operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 994,966 $ 748,081 $ 504,414 52 table of content reconciliation of net operating margin per barrel to refinery gross margin per barrel to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2012 2011 2010 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated net operating margin per barrel $ 19.40 $ 15.28 $ 3.71 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 5.49 5.36 5.08 refinery gross margin per barrel 24.89 20.64 8.79 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 94.59 98.18 82.27 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 119.48 $ 118.82 $ 91.06 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 431,060 332,720 228,140 times number of days in period 366 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 18,850,116 $ 14,429,833 $ 7,582,666 total refined product sales from produced products sold $ 18,850,116 $ 14,429,833 $ 7,582,666 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 572,206 350,843 130,866 total refined product sales 19,422,322 14,780,676 7,713,532 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 505,971 558,855 459,743 add other refining segment revenue (3) 114,662 52,899 113,725 total refining segment revenue 20,042,955 15,392,430 8,287,000 add hep segment sales and other revenues 288,501 212,995 182,093 add corporate and other revenues 1,048 1,098 412 subtract consolidations and eliminations (241,780 ) (166,995 ) (146,576 ) sales and other revenues $ 20,090,724 $ 15,439,528 $ 8,322,929 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. additionally, at times we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at carryover cost. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the incremental revenues associated with nk asphalt and miscellaneous revenue. (4) other refining segment cost of products sold includes the incremental cost of products for nk asphalt and miscellaneous costs. (5) other refining segment operating expenses include the marketing costs associated with our refining segment and the operating expenses of nk asphalt. 53 table of contentrisk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors, regional and grade differentials and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, product and crude pipeline capacities, changes in transportation costs, accidents or interruptions in transportation, competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve, and factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates based upon worldwide and local market conditions. our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. for example, the reversal of certain existing pipelines or the construction of certain new pipelines transporting additional crude oil or refined products to markets that serve competing refineries could affect the market dynamic that has allowed us to take advantage of favorable pricing. additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year and can vary year to year in the event of unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and / or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which we sell our petroleum products. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results therefore depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flow. also, crude oil supply contracts are generally short-term contracts with market-responsive pricing provisions. we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. further, if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, if we are unsuccessful in integrating the operations of assets we acquire, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. additionally, our growth strategy includes projects that permit access to new and/or more profitable markets. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control, including: 21 table of content denial or delay in issuing requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; compliance with or liability under environmental regulations; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires, spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. an additional component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations and inefficiencies that may result therefrom; difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; difficulties or delays in achieving anticipated operational improvements or benefits; incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. any acquisitions that we do consummate may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. 22 table of content we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, energy, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances by pipeline, truck, rail and barge, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal or may require operational changes, which may involve significant costs. furthermore, a violation of permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or refinery shutdowns. in addition, major modifications of our operations due to changes in the law could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. over the years, there have been and continue to be ongoing communications, including notices of violations, and discussions about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include, but are not limited to, soil, groundwater and waterway contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed. we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. failure to appropriately manage occupational health and safety risks associated with our business could also adversely impact our employees, communities, stakeholders, reputation and results of operations. we cannot predict what additional health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. however, new environmental laws and regulations, including new regulations relating to alternative energy sources and the risk of global climate change, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. the epa has begun regulating certain emissions of greenhouse gases, or ghgs, (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) from large stationary sources like refineries under the authority of the caa, and it is possible that congress could pass federal legislation that creates a comprehensive ghg regulatory program, either directly or indirectly, such as via a federal renewal energy standard. also, new federal or state legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of ghgs in areas where we conduct business could adversely affect demand for our products and our results of operations. the costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. from time to time, new federal energy policy legislation is enacted by the u.s. congress. for example, in december 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act, which, among other provisions, mandates annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. these statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. in the near term, the new renewable fuel standard presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining industries and may require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased ethanol use. other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. 23 table of content for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties, and item 3, legal proceedings. the adoption of climate change legislation by congress could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce. in december 2009, the epa determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other ghgs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal caa. the epa also adopted two sets of rules regulating ghg emissions under the caa, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of ghgs from motor vehicles and the other of which may require permits for emissions of ghgs from certain large stationary sources. the epa's rules relating to emissions of ghgs from large stationary sources of emissions were upheld by the d.c. circuit, but the u.s. supreme court has agreed to review that decision in response to petitions by numerous parties. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions from specified large ghg emission sources in the united states, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis. the epa has also announced its intention to issue a new source performance standard directly regulating ghg emissions from refineries. in addition, the u.s. congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs primarily through the planned development of ghg emission inventories and/or regional ghg cap and trade programs. these cap and trade programs generally work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and on an annual basis surrender emission allowances. the number of allowances available for purchase is reduced over time in an effort to achieve the overall ghg emission reduction goal. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the refined products that we produce. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, power failures, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage or destruction of property, as well as a curtailment or an interruption in our operations and may affect our ability to meet marketing commitments. we maintain significant insurance coverage, but it does not cover all potential losses, costs or liabilities, and our business interruption insurance coverage generally does not apply unless a business interruption exceeds 45 days. if any refinery were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. the availability of adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control, resulting in the inability to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase or, in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. we could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. the occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 table of content the energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. in recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. as a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. in addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. further, our underwriters could have credit issues that affect their ability to pay claims. the unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the availability and cost of renewable identification numbers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. pursuant to the 2007 energy independence and security act, the epa promulgated the renewable fuel standard 2 ( rfs2 ) regulations reflecting the increased volume of renewable fuels mandated to be blended into the nation's fuel supply. the regulations, in part, require refiners to add annually increasing amounts of renewable fuels to their petroleum products or purchase credits, known as renewable identification numbers ( rins ), in lieu of such blending. we currently purchase rins for some fuel categories on the open market in order to comply with the quantity of renewable fuels we are required to blend under the rfs2. recently, due in part to the nation's fuel supply approaching the blend wall (the 10% ethanol limit prescribed by most automobile warranties), the price of rins has been extremely volatile with the price dramatically increasing in recognition of the decrease in rins availability. while we cannot predict the future prices of rins, the costs to obtain the necessary number of rins could be material. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance with the rfs2 on to our customers, if sufficient rins are unavailable for purchase, if we have to pay a significantly higher price for rins or if we are otherwise unable to meet the rfs2 mandates, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future major capital investment, various environmental compliance related projects, regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may not produce a return on investment. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. one or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. we have taken significant measures to expand and upgrade units in our refineries by installing new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve refinery capacity. the installation and redesign of key equipment at our refineries involves significant uncertainties, including the following: our upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels; operating costs of the upgraded equipment may be higher than expected; the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design and/or specifications and redesign, modification or replacement of the equipment may be required to correct equipment that does not perform as expected, which could require facility shutdowns until the equipment has been redesigned or modified. any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment, or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we expect to execute turnarounds at our refineries, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties. these risks include delays and incurrence of additional and unforeseen costs. the turnarounds allow us to perform maintenance, upgrades, overhaul and repair of process equipment and materials, during which time all or a portion of the refinery will be under scheduled downtime. 25 table of content competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry. we are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. the markets in which we compete may be impacted by competitors' plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability. also, the potential operation of new or expanded refined product transportation pipelines, or the conversion of existing pipelines into refined product transportation pipelines, could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets and negatively affect our profitability. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. the more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. there are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the united states. a material decrease in the supply of crude oil available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels. to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. in addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries or the potential operation of a new, converted or expanded crude oil pipeline that transports crude oil to other markets could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. if we are unable to secure additional crude oil supplies of sufficient quality or crude pipeline expansion to our refineries, we will be unable to take full advantage of current and future expansion of our refineries' production capacities. a disruption to or proration of the refined product distribution systems we utilize could negatively impact our profitability. we utilize various common carrier or other third party pipeline systems to deliver our products to market. the key systems utilized by the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross, and tulsa refineries are rocky mountain, nustar energy, sfpp and plains, chevron, and magellan, respectively. all five refineries also utilize systems owned by hep. if these key pipelines or their associated tanks and terminals become inoperative or decrease the capacity available to us, we may not be able to sell our product, or we may be required to hold our product in inventory or supply products to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by rail or additional tanker trucks from the refinery, all of which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability. 26 table of content we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. information technology system failures, network disruptions (whether intentional by a third party or due to natural disaster), breaches of network or data security, or disruption or failure of the network system used to monitor and control pipeline operations could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. this may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. the domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions are disrupted and volatile from time to time due to a variety of factors, including low consumer confidence, high unemployment, geoeconomic and geopolitical issues, weak economic conditions and uncertainty in the financial services sector. in addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility, which negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. as a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from these markets diminished significantly. in particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease, to provide funding to borrowers. in addition, lending counterparties under any existing revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be required to sell assets. moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or construction projects, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, comply with regulatory requirements, or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. failure to comply with regulatory requirements in a timely manner or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements could subject us to regulatory action. we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the crude supply and distribution network that serve our refineries and we own a significant equity interest in hep. we currently own a 39% interest in hep, including the 2% general partner interest. hep operates a system of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines, distribution terminals and refinery tankage in arizona, idaho, kansas, new mexico, oklahoma, texas, utah, washington and wyoming. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross and tulsa refineries under several long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements expiring in 2019 through 2026. furthermore, our financial statements include the consolidated results of hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on its significant customers, including us; competition from other pipelines; environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations; operational hazards and risks; pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge; limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep's debt covenants; and other financial, operational and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect hep's as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as hep is a consolidated vie. additionally, these risks could affect hep's ability to continue operations which could affect their ability to serve our supply and distribution network needs. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. for risks related to hep's business, see item 1a of hep's annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2013 . 27 table of content we are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our key customers and vendors. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers. if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. in addition, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide us with products or services could result in higher costs or interfere with our ability to successfully conduct our business. any substantial increase in the nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers or vendors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on september 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are not known at this time. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. future terrorist attacks could lead to even stronger, more costly initiatives or regulatory requirements. uncertainty surrounding continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. in addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. increases in required fuel economy and regulation of co 2 emissions from motor vehicles may reduce demand for transportation fuels. in 2010, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) finalized new standards, raising the required corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) of the nation's passenger fleet by 40% to approximately 35 miles per gallon ( m.p.g. ) by 2016 and imposing the first-ever federal ghg emissions standards on cars and light trucks. in september 2011, the epa and the department of transportation finalized first-time standards for fuel economy of medium and heavy duty trucks. on august 28, 2012 the epa and nhtsa adopted standards through model year 2025 in two phases. the first phase establishes final standards for 2017-2021 model year vehicles that are projected to require 40.3 - 41.0 m.p.g. in model year 2021 on an average industry fleet-wide basis. the second phase of the cafe program represents non-final augural standards for 2022-2025 model year vehicles that are projected to require 48.7 - 49.7 m.p.g. in model year 2025, on an average industry fleet-wide basis. such increases in fuel economy standards, along with mandated increases in use of renewable fuels discussed above, could result in decreasing demand for petroleum fuels. decreasing demand for petroleum fuels could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operation. we may be unable to pay future regular and/or special dividends. we will only be able to pay dividends from our available cash on hand, cash from operations or borrowings under our credit agreement. the declaration of future regular and/or special dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, and restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. we cannot assure you that any dividends will be paid or the frequency of such payments. 28 table of content product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our operating responsibility on refined product pipelines is to insure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. if our quality control measures were to fail, we may have contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks or off-specification product could be sent to public gasoline stations. these types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers. product liability is a significant commercial risk. substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. there can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers. our hedging transactions may limit our gains and expose us to other risks. we periodically enter into derivative transactions as it relates to inventory levels and/or future production to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products and other feedstocks. these transactions limit our potential gains if commodity prices move above or below the certain price levels established by our hedging instruments. we hedge price risk on inventories above our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. consequently, our hedging results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. these transactions may also expose us to risks of financial losses; for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreements fails to perform its obligations under the agreements. changes in our credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. an unfavorable credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require credit enhancement. due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms or credit enhancement requirements on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. this in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at desired capacity. a failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. our debt agreements contain operating and financial restrictions that might constrain our business and financing activities. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. for example, our revolving credit facility imposes usual and customary requirements for this type of credit facility, including: (i) limitations on liens, investments, indebtedness and dividends; (ii) a prohibition on changes in control and (iii) restrictions on engaging in mergers, consolidations and sales of assets, entering into certain lease obligations, and making certain investments or capital expenditures. if we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in the credit facility or another event of default occurs under the facility, the maturity of the loan could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our future working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. if we desire to undertake a transaction that is prohibited by the covenants in our credit facility, we will need to obtain consent under our credit facility. such refinancing may not be possible or may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. in addition, our obligations under our credit facility are secured by inventory, receivables and pledged cash assets. if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facility when due, the lenders could seek to foreclose on the assets or we may be required to contribute additional capital to our subsidiaries. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 table of content our business may suffer due to a change in the composition of our board of directors, or by the departure of any of our key senior executives or other key employees. furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance, non-compete agreements, or employment agreements with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. a shortage of trained workers due to retirements or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2013 , approximately 33% of our employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates. we may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. a failure to do so may increase our costs. in addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and the value of a stockholder's investment could be impacted. the market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; general economic and stock market conditions; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; future sales of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; sales of common stock by us, our senior officers or our affiliates; and/or the other factors described in these risk factors. in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. this volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders plus (i) interest expense, net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under gaap; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda. years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 (in thousands) net income attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders $ 735,842 $ 1,727,172 $ 1,023,397 add income tax provision 391,576 1,027,962 581,991 add interest expense (1) 90,159 104,186 78,323 subtract interest income (5,556 ) (4,786 ) (1,284 ) add depreciation and amortization 303,446 242,868 159,707 ebitda $ 1,515,467 $ 3,097,402 $ 1,842,134 (1) includes loss on early extinguishment of debt of $22.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. 50 table of content reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. refinery gross margin per barrel is the difference between average net sales price and average cost of products per barrel of produced refined products. net operating margin per barrel is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel of produced refined products. these two margins do not include the effect of depreciation and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. refinery gross and net operating margins below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for (i) net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold, and (ii) net operating margin and refinery gross margin. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. reconciliation of produced refined product sales to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 115.60 $ 119.48 $ 118.82 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 410,730 431,060 332,720 times number of days in period 365 366 365 produced refined product sales $ 17,330,342 $ 18,850,116 $ 14,429,833 total produced refined product sales $ 17,330,342 $ 18,850,116 $ 14,429,833 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 1,581,395 572,206 350,843 total refined product sales 18,911,737 19,422,322 14,780,676 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 1,052,915 505,971 558,855 add other refining segment revenue (3) 140,791 114,662 52,899 total refining segment revenue 20,105,443 20,042,955 15,392,430 add hep segment sales and other revenues 307,053 288,501 212,995 add corporate and other revenues 1,314 1,048 1,098 subtract consolidations and eliminations (253,250 ) (241,780 ) (166,995 ) sales and other revenues $ 20,160,560 $ 20,090,724 $ 15,439,528 51 table of content reconciliation of average cost of products per produced barrel sold to total cost of products sold years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 99.61 $ 94.59 $ 98.18 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 410,730 431,060 332,720 times number of days in period 365 366 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 14,933,178 $ 14,923,271 $ 11,923,254 total cost of products for produced products sold $ 14,933,178 $ 14,923,271 $ 11,923,254 add refined product costs from purchased products and rounding (1) 1,553,476 572,755 351,788 total cost of refined products sold 16,486,654 15,496,026 12,275,042 add crude oil cost of direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 1,048,224 492,790 550,619 add other refining segment cost of products sold (4) 106,241 90,132 18,672 total refining segment cost of products sold 17,641,119 16,078,948 12,844,333 subtract consolidations and eliminations (248,892 ) (238,305 ) (164,255 ) costs of products sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 17,392,227 $ 15,840,643 $ 12,680,078 reconciliation of average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 6.15 $ 5.49 $ 5.36 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 410,730 431,060 332,720 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 921,986 $ 866,146 $ 650,933 total refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 921,986 $ 866,146 $ 650,933 add refining segment pension settlement costs 31,657 add other refining segment operating expenses and rounding (5) 39,812 37,231 35,659 total refining segment operating expenses 993,455 903,377 686,592 add hep segment operating expenses 97,081 89,395 63,029 add corporate and other costs 1,739 2,721 427 subtract consolidations and eliminations (1,425 ) (527 ) (1,967 ) operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,090,850 $ 994,966 $ 748,081 52 table of content reconciliation of net operating margin per barrel to refinery gross margin per barrel to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2013 2012 2011 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated net operating margin per barrel $ 9.84 $ 19.40 $ 15.28 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 6.15 5.49 5.36 refinery gross margin per barrel 15.99 24.89 20.64 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 99.61 94.59 98.18 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 115.60 $ 119.48 $ 118.82 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 410,730 431,060 332,720 times number of days in period 365 366 365 produced refined product sales $ 17,330,342 $ 18,850,116 $ 14,429,833 total produced refined product sales $ 17,330,342 $ 18,850,116 $ 14,429,833 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 1,581,395 572,206 350,843 total refined product sales 18,911,737 19,422,322 14,780,676 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 1,052,915 505,971 558,855 add other refining segment revenue (3) 140,791 114,662 52,899 total refining segment revenue 20,105,443 20,042,955 15,392,430 add hep segment sales and other revenues 307,053 288,501 212,995 add corporate and other revenues 1,314 1,048 1,098 subtract consolidations and eliminations (253,250 ) (241,780 ) (166,995 ) sales and other revenues $ 20,160,560 $ 20,090,724 $ 15,439,528 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. additionally, at times we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at carryover cost. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the incremental revenues associated with nk asphalt and miscellaneous revenue. (4) other refining segment cost of products sold includes the incremental cost of products for nk asphalt and miscellaneous costs. (5) other refining segment operating expenses include the marketing costs associated with our refining segment and the operating expenses of nk asphalt. 53 table of contentrisk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the headings provided in this item 1a. are for convenience and reference purposes only and shall not affect or limit the extent or interpretation of the risk factors. the prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors, regional and grade differentials and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, product and crude pipeline capacities, changes in transportation costs, accidents or interruptions in transportation, competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve, and factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates based upon worldwide and local market conditions. our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. for example, the reversal of certain existing pipelines or the construction of certain new pipelines transporting additional crude oil or refined products to markets that serve competing refineries could affect the market dynamic that has allowed us to take advantage of favorable pricing. additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year and can vary year to year in the event of unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and / or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which we sell our petroleum products. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results therefore depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flow. also, crude oil supply contracts are generally short-term contracts with market-responsive pricing provisions. we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial condition and results of operations. also, our crude oil and refined products inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market under the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) inventory valuation methodology. if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our lifo cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of products sold even when there is no underlying economic impact at that point in time. for example, for the year ended december 31, 2014, we recorded a non-cash increase to cost of products sold in the amount of $397.5 million . continued volatility in crude oil and refined products prices could result in additional lower of cost or market inventory charges in the future, or in reversals reducing cost of products sold in subsequent periods should prices recover. 19 table of content a material decrease in the supply of crude oil available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels. to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. in addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries or the potential operation of a new, converted or expanded crude oil pipeline that transports crude oil to other markets could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. if we are unable to secure additional crude oil supplies of sufficient quality or crude pipeline expansion to our refineries, we will be unable to take full advantage of current and future expansion of our refineries' production capacities. we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. further, if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, if we are unsuccessful in integrating the operations of assets we acquire, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. additionally, our growth strategy includes projects that permit access to new and/or more profitable markets. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control, including: denial or delay in issuing requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; compliance with or liability under environmental regulations; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires, spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. an additional component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations and inefficiencies that may result therefrom; 20 table of content difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; difficulties or delays in achieving anticipated operational improvements or benefits; incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. any acquisitions that we do consummate may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, energy, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances by pipeline, truck, rail and barge, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits or other authorizations are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits and authorizations are subject to revocation, modification and renewal or may require operational changes, which may involve significant costs. furthermore, a violation of permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or refinery shutdowns. in addition, major modifications of our operations due to changes in the law could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. over the years, there have been ongoing communications, including notices of violations, about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of our operations and capital requirements. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include, but are not limited to, soil, groundwater and waterway contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed. we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. failure to appropriately manage occupational health and safety risks associated with our business could also adversely impact our employees, communities, stakeholders, reputation and results of operations. we cannot predict what additional health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. however, new environmental laws and regulations, including new regulations relating to alternative energy sources and the risk of global climate change, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. for example, the epa has begun regulating certain sources of greenhouse gas emissions, or ghgs, (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) from large stationary sources like refineries under the authority of the caa, and it is possible that congress could pass federal legislation that creates a comprehensive ghg regulatory program, either directly or indirectly, such as via a federal renewal energy standard. also, new federal or state legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of ghgs in areas where we conduct business could adversely affect demand for our products and our results of operations. 21 table of content the costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. from time to time, new federal energy policy legislation is enacted by the u.s. congress. for example, in december 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act, which, among other provisions, mandates annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. these statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. in the near term, the new renewable fuel standard presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining industries and may require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased ethanol use. other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties, and item 3, legal proceedings. the adoption of climate change legislation by congress could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce. in december 2009, the epa determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other ghgs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal caa. for example, the epa adopted rules that require certain large stationary sources to obtain permits to authorize emissions of ghgs. the epa's rules relating to emissions of ghgs from large stationary sources of emissions were, for the most part, upheld by the u.s. supreme court in 2014. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions from specified large ghg emission sources in the united states, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis. the epa has also announced its intention to issue a new source performance standard directly regulating ghg emissions from refineries, although recent statements from epa administrator mccarthy indicate that issuance of such performance standard is not imminent.. in addition, the u.s. congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs primarily through the planned development of ghg emission inventories and/or regional ghg cap and trade programs. these cap and trade programs generally work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and on an annual basis surrender emission allowances. the number of allowances available for purchase is reduced over time in an effort to achieve the overall ghg emission reduction goal. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the refined products that we produce. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 22 table of content our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, power failures, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage or destruction of property, as well as a curtailment or an interruption in our operations and may affect our ability to meet marketing commitments. we maintain significant insurance coverage, but it does not cover all potential losses, costs or liabilities, and our business interruption insurance coverage generally does not apply unless a business interruption exceeds 45 days. if any refinery were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. the availability of adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control, resulting in the inability to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase or, in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. we could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. the occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. in recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. as a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. in addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. further, our underwriters could have credit issues that affect their ability to pay claims. the unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the availability and cost of renewable identification numbers could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the epa has not yet finalized the 2014 percentage standards under its renewable fuel standard 2 ( rfs2 ) regulations. pursuant to the 2007 energy independence and security act, the epa promulgated the rfs2 regulations reflecting the increased volume of renewable fuels mandated to be blended into the nation's fuel supply. the regulations, in part, require refiners to add annually increasing amounts of renewable fuels to their petroleum products or purchase credits, known as renewable identification numbers ( rins ), in lieu of such blending. we currently purchase rins for some fuel categories on the open market in order to comply with the quantity of renewable fuels we are required to blend under the rfs2. recently, due in part to the nation's fuel supply approaching the blend wall (the 10% ethanol limit prescribed by most automobile warranties), the price of rins has been extremely volatile with the price dramatically increasing in recognition of the decrease in rins availability. while we cannot predict the future prices of rins, the costs to obtain the necessary number of rins could be material. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance with the rfs2 on to our customers, if sufficient rins are unavailable for purchase, if we have to pay a significantly higher price for rins or if we are otherwise unable to meet the rfs2 mandates, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. additionally, the epa has not yet finalized the 2014 percentage standards under its rfs2 program. when the epa ultimately finalizes the required blending percentages for 2014, such levels could be higher or lower than amounts estimated and accrued for in our consolidated financial statements as of december 31, 2014. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry. 23 table of content we are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. the markets in which we compete may be impacted by competitors' plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability. also, the potential operation of new or expanded refined product transportation pipelines, or the conversion of existing pipelines into refined product transportation pipelines, could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets and negatively affect our profitability. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. the more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. there are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the united states. a disruption to or proration of the refined product distribution systems we utilize could negatively impact our profitability. we utilize various common carrier or other third party pipeline systems to deliver our products to market. the key systems utilized by the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross, and tulsa refineries are rocky mountain, nustar energy, sfpp and plains, chevron, and magellan, respectively. all five refineries also utilize systems owned by hep. if these key pipelines or their associated tanks and terminals become inoperative or decrease the capacity available to us, we may not be able to sell our product, or we may be required to hold our product in inventory or supply products to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by rail or additional tanker trucks from the refinery, all of which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. information technology system failures, network disruptions (whether intentional by a third party or due to natural disaster), breaches of network or data security, or disruption or failure of the network system used to monitor and control pipeline operations could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 24 table of content we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. this may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. the domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions are disrupted and volatile from time to time due to a variety of factors, including low consumer confidence, high unemployment, geoeconomic and geopolitical issues, weak economic conditions and uncertainty in the financial services sector. in addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility, which negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. as a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from these markets diminished significantly. in particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease, to provide funding to borrowers. in addition, lending counterparties under any existing revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations, or we may experience a decrease in our capacity to issue debt or obtain commercial credit or a deterioration in our credit profile, including a rating agency lowering or withdrawing of our credit ratings if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be required to sell assets. moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or construction projects, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, comply with regulatory requirements, or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. failure to comply with regulatory requirements in a timely manner or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements could subject us to regulatory action. we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the crude supply and distribution network that serve our refineries and we own a significant equity interest in hep. we currently own a 39% interest in hep, including the 2% general partner interest. hep operates a system of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines, distribution terminals and refinery tankage in arizona, idaho, kansas, new mexico, oklahoma, texas, utah, washington and wyoming. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross and tulsa refineries under several long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements expiring in 2019 through 2026. furthermore, our financial statements include the consolidated results of hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on its significant customers, including us; competition from other pipelines; environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations; operational hazards and risks; pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge; limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep's debt covenants; and other financial, operational and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect hep's as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as hep is a consolidated vie. additionally, these risks could affect hep's ability to continue operations which could affect their ability to serve our supply and distribution network needs. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. for risks related to hep's business, see item 1a of hep's annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2014 . we are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our key customers and vendors. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers. if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. in addition, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide us with products or services could result in higher costs or interfere with our ability to successfully conduct our business. 25 table of content any substantial increase in the nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers or vendors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on september 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are not known at this time. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. future terrorist attacks could lead to even stronger, more costly initiatives or regulatory requirements. uncertainty surrounding continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. in addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. increases in required fuel economy and regulation of co 2 emissions from motor vehicles may reduce demand for transportation fuels. in 2010, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) finalized new standards, raising the required corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) of the nation's passenger fleet by 40% to approximately 35 miles per gallon ( m.p.g. ) by 2016 and imposing the first-ever federal ghg emissions standards on cars and light trucks. in september 2011, the epa and the department of transportation finalized first-time standards for fuel economy of medium and heavy duty trucks. on august 28, 2012 the epa and nhtsa adopted standards through model year 2025 in two phases. the first phase establishes final standards for 2017-2021 model year vehicles that are projected to require 40.3 - 41.0 m.p.g. in model year 2021 on an average industry fleet-wide basis. the second phase of the cafe program represents non-final augural standards for 2022-2025 model year vehicles that are projected to require 48.7 - 49.7 m.p.g. in model year 2025, on an average industry fleet-wide basis. such increases in fuel economy standards, along with mandated increases in use of renewable fuels discussed above, could result in decreasing demand for petroleum fuels. decreasing demand for petroleum fuels could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operation. to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future major capital investment, various environmental compliance related projects, regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may not produce a return on investment. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. 26 table of content our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. one or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. we have taken significant measures to expand and upgrade units in our refineries by installing new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve refinery capacity. the installation and redesign of key equipment at our refineries involves significant uncertainties, including the following: our upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels; operating costs of the upgraded equipment may be higher than expected; the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design and/or specifications and redesign, modification or replacement of the equipment may be required to correct equipment that does not perform as expected, which could require facility shutdowns until the equipment has been redesigned or modified. any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment, or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we expect to execute turnarounds at our refineries, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties. these risks include delays and incurrence of additional and unforeseen costs. the turnarounds allow us to perform maintenance, upgrades, overhaul and repair of process equipment and materials, during which time all or a portion of the refinery will be under scheduled downtime. we may be unable to pay future regular and/or special dividends. we will only be able to pay dividends from our available cash on hand, cash from operations or borrowings under our credit agreement. the declaration of future regular and/or special dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, and restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. we cannot assure you that any dividends will be paid or the frequency of such payments. product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our operating responsibility on refined product pipelines is to insure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. if our quality control measures were to fail, we may have contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks or off-specification product could be sent to public gasoline stations. these types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers. product liability is a significant commercial risk. substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. there can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers. our hedging transactions may limit our gains and expose us to other risks. we periodically enter into derivative transactions as it relates to inventory levels and/or future production to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products and other feedstocks. these transactions limit our potential gains if commodity prices move above or below the certain price levels established by our hedging instruments. we hedge price risk on inventories above our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. consequently, our hedging results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. these transactions may also expose us to risks of financial losses; for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreements fails to perform its obligations under the agreements. changes in our credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. an unfavorable credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require credit enhancement. due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms or credit enhancement requirements on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. this in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at desired capacity. a failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. 27 table of content our credit facility contains certain covenants and restrictions that may constrain our business and financing activities. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. for example, our revolving credit facility imposes usual and customary requirements for this type of credit facility, including: (i) limitations on liens and indebtedness; (ii) a prohibition on changes in control and (iii) restrictions on engaging in mergers and consolidations. if we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in the credit facility or another event of default occurs under the credit facility, the maturity of the loan could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our future working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. if we desire to undertake a transaction that is prohibited by the covenants in our credit facility, we will need to obtain consent under our credit facility. such refinancing may not be possible or may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. our business may suffer due to a change in the composition of our board of directors, or by the departure of any of our key senior executives or other key employees. furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance, non-compete agreements, or employment agreements with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. a shortage of trained workers due to retirements or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 33% of our employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates. we may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. a failure to do so may increase our costs. in addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and the value of a stockholder's investment could be impacted. the market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; general economic and stock market conditions; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; future sales of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; sales of common stock by us, our senior officers or our affiliates; and/or the other factors described in these risk factors. in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. this volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders plus (i) interest expense, net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under gaap; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a 46 table of content measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda. years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (in thousands) net income attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders $ 281,292 $ 735,842 $ 1,727,172 add income tax provision 141,172 391,576 1,027,962 add interest expense (1) 51,323 90,159 104,186 subtract interest income (4,430 ) (5,556 ) (4,786 ) add depreciation and amortization 363,381 303,446 242,868 ebitda $ 832,738 $ 1,515,467 $ 3,097,402 (1) includes loss on early extinguishment of debt of $7.7 million and $22.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. refinery gross margin per barrel is the difference between average net sales price and average cost of products per barrel of produced refined products. net operating margin per barrel is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel of produced refined products. these two margins do not include the non-cash effects of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustments or depreciation and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. refinery gross and net operating margins below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for (i) net sales, cost of products (exclusive of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustment) and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold, and (ii) net operating margin and refinery gross margin. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. 47 table of content reconciliation of produced product sales to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 110.19 $ 115.60 $ 119.48 times sales of produced refined products (bpd) 420,990 410,730 431,060 times number of days in period 365 365 366 produced refined product sales $ 16,931,944 $ 17,330,342 $ 18,850,116 total produced refined product sales $ 16,931,944 $ 17,330,342 $ 18,850,116 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 1,566,925 1,581,395 572,206 total refined product sales 18,498,869 18,911,737 19,422,322 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 1,060,354 1,052,915 505,971 add other refining segment revenue (3) 147,002 140,791 114,662 total refining segment revenue 19,706,225 20,105,443 20,042,955 add hep segment sales and other revenues 332,626 307,053 288,501 add corporate and other revenues 2,103 1,314 1,048 subtract consolidations and eliminations (276,627 ) (253,250 ) (241,780 ) sales and other revenues $ 19,764,327 $ 20,160,560 $ 20,090,724 reconciliation of average cost of products per produced barrel sold to cost of products sold (exclusive of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustment) years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 96.21 $ 99.61 $ 94.59 times sales of produced refined products (bpd) 420,990 410,730 431,060 times number of days in period 365 365 366 cost of products for produced products sold $ 14,783,758 $ 14,933,178 $ 14,923,271 total cost of products for produced products sold $ 14,783,758 $ 14,933,178 $ 14,923,271 add refined product costs from purchased products and rounding (1) 1,572,944 1,553,476 572,755 total cost of refined products sold 16,356,702 16,486,654 15,496,026 add crude oil cost of direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 1,030,235 1,048,224 492,790 add other refining segment cost of products sold (4) 113,664 106,241 90,132 total refining segment cost of products sold 17,500,601 17,641,119 16,078,948 subtract consolidations and eliminations (272,216 ) (248,892 ) (238,305 ) costs of products sold (exclusive of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustment and depreciation and amortization) $ 17,228,385 $ 17,392,227 $ 15,840,643 48 table of content reconciliation of average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 6.38 $ 6.15 $ 5.49 times sales of produced refined products (bpd) 420,990 410,730 431,060 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 980,359 $ 921,986 $ 866,146 total refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 980,359 $ 921,986 $ 866,146 add refining segment pension settlement costs 31,657 add other refining segment operating expenses and rounding (5) 42,810 39,812 37,231 total refining segment operating expenses 1,023,169 993,455 903,377 add hep segment operating expenses 104,801 97,081 89,395 add corporate and other costs 18,402 1,739 2,721 subtract consolidations and eliminations (1,432 ) (1,425 ) (527 ) operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,144,940 $ 1,090,850 $ 994,966 reconciliation of net operating margin per barrel to refinery gross margin per barrel to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2014 2013 2012 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated net operating margin per barrel $ 7.60 $ 9.84 $ 19.40 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 6.38 6.15 5.49 refinery gross margin per barrel 13.98 15.99 24.89 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 96.21 99.61 94.59 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 110.19 $ 115.60 $ 119.48 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 420,990 410,730 431,060 times number of days in period 365 365 366 produced refined product sales $ 16,931,944 $ 17,330,342 $ 18,850,116 total produced refined product sales $ 16,931,944 $ 17,330,342 $ 18,850,116 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 1,566,925 1,581,395 572,206 total refined product sales 18,498,869 18,911,737 19,422,322 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 1,060,354 1,052,915 505,971 add other refining segment revenue (3) 147,002 140,791 114,662 total refining segment revenue 19,706,225 20,105,443 20,042,955 add hep segment sales and other revenues 332,626 307,053 288,501 add corporate and other revenues 2,103 1,314 1,048 subtract consolidations and eliminations (276,627 ) (253,250 ) (241,780 ) sales and other revenues $ 19,764,327 $ 20,160,560 $ 20,090,724 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. additionally, at times we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at cost. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the incremental revenues associated with nk asphalt and miscellaneous revenue. (4) other refining segment cost of products sold includes the incremental cost of products for nk asphalt and miscellaneous costs. (5) other refining segment operating expenses include the marketing costs associated with our refining segment and the operating expenses of nk asphalt. 49 table of contentrisk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the headings provided in this item 1a. are for convenience and reference purposes only and shall not affect or limit the extent or interpretation of the risk factors. the prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors, regional and grade differentials and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, product and crude pipeline capacities, crude oil differentials (including regional and grade differentials), changes in transportation costs, accidents or interruptions in transportation, competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve, and factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates based upon worldwide and local market conditions. our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. for example, the reversal of certain existing pipelines or the construction of certain new pipelines transporting additional crude oil or refined products to markets that serve competing refineries could affect the market dynamic that has allowed us to take advantage of favorable pricing. also, in december 2015, the u.s. congress lifted the ban on the ability of producers to export domestic crude oil. this could potentially impact crack spreads and price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils. a deterioration of crack spreads or price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 22 table of content additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year and can vary year to year in the event of unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and / or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which we sell our petroleum products. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results, therefore, depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flow. also, crude oil supply contracts are generally short-term contracts with market-responsive pricing provisions. we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial condition and results of operations. also, our crude oil and refined products inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market under the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) inventory valuation methodology. if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our lifo cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of products sold even when there is no underlying economic impact at that point in time. for example, we recorded a non-cash increase to cost of products sold in the amounts of $227.0 million and $397.5 million for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. continued volatility in crude oil and refined products prices could result in additional lower of cost or market inventory charges in the future, or in reversals reducing cost of products sold in subsequent periods should prices recover. a material decrease in the supply of crude oil or other raw materials available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels and negatively affect our operations. to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. in addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries or the potential operation of a new, converted or expanded crude oil pipeline that transports crude oil to other markets could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. if we are unable to secure additional crude oil supplies of sufficient quality or crude pipeline expansion to our refineries, we will be unable to take full advantage of current and future expansion of our refineries' production capacities. for certain raw materials and utilities used by our refineries, there are a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. it is also common in the refining industry for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity, water and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources. the decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations. if our raw material, utility or water supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on our operations. 23 table of content we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. further, if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, if we are unsuccessful in integrating the operations of assets we acquire, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. additionally, our growth strategy includes projects that permit access to new and/or more profitable markets. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control, including: denial or delay in issuing requisite regulatory approvals and/or obtaining or renewing permits, licenses, registrations and other authorizations; societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition; compliance with or liability under environmental regulations; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires, spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. an additional component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations and inefficiencies that may result therefrom; difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; difficulties or delays in achieving anticipated operational improvements or benefits; incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. any acquisitions that we do consummate may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. 24 table of content we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, energy, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances by pipeline, truck, rail and barge, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits or other authorizations are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits and authorizations are subject to revocation, modification and renewal or may require operational changes, which may involve significant costs. furthermore, a violation of permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or refinery shutdowns. in addition, major modifications of our operations due to changes in the law could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. for example, in october 2015, the epa lowered the naaqs for ozone from 75 to 70 parts per billion for both the 8-hour primary and secondary standards. state implementation of the revised naaqs could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or prohibit our ability to obtain such permits, and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. also, in december 2015, the epa issued a final rule, effective february 2016, that amends three refinery standards already in effect, imposing additional or, in some cases, new emission control requirements on subject refineries. the final rule requires, among other things, benzene monitoring at the refinery fence line and submittal of fence line monitoring data to the epa on a quarterly basis; upgraded storage tank controls requirements, including new applicability thresholds; enhanced performance requirements for flares, continuous monitoring of flares and pressure release devices and analysis and remedy of flare release events; and compliance with emissions standards for delayed coking units. over the years, there have been ongoing communications, including notices of violations, about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of our operations and capital requirements. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include, but are not limited to, soil, groundwater and waterway contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed. we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. failure to appropriately manage occupational health and safety risks associated with our business could also adversely impact our employees, communities, stakeholders, reputation and results of operations. the costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. from time to time, new federal energy policy legislation is enacted by the u.s. congress. for example, in december 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act, which, among other provisions, mandates annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. these statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. in the near term, the new renewable fuel standard presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining industries and may require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased ethanol use. other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties, and item 3, legal proceedings. 25 table of content the adoption of climate change legislation by congress could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce. in december 2009, the epa determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gas emissions, or ghgs, present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal caa. for example, the epa adopted rules that require certain large stationary sources to obtain permits to authorize emissions of ghgs. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions from specified large ghg emission sources in the united states, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis. the epa has also announced its intention to issue a new source performance standard directly regulating ghg emissions from refineries, although recent statements from epa administrator mccarthy indicate that issuance of such performance standard is not imminent.. in addition, the u.s. congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs primarily through the planned development of ghg emission inventories and/or regional ghg cap and trade programs. these cap and trade programs generally work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and on an annual basis surrender emission allowances. the number of allowances available for purchase is reduced over time in an effort to achieve the overall ghg emission reduction goal. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the refined products that we produce. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, cyber-attacks, power failures, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events could result in an injury, loss of life, property damage or destruction, as well as a curtailment or an interruption in our operations and may affect our ability to meet marketing commitments. we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates and exclusions from coverage may limit our ability to recover the amount of the full loss in all situations. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. we are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business and therefore, we self-insure certain risks. if any refinery were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. the energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. in recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. as a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. in addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. further, our underwriters could have credit issues that affect their ability to pay claims. if a significant accident or event occurs that is self-insured or not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 table of content the availability and cost of renewable identification numbers and other required credits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. pursuant to the 2007 energy independence and security act, the epa promulgated the rfs2 regulations reflecting the increased volume of renewable fuels mandated to be blended into the nation's fuel supply. the regulations, in part, require refiners to add annually increasing amounts of renewable fuels to their petroleum products or purchase credits, known as rins, in lieu of such blending. we currently purchase rins for some fuel categories on the open market in order to comply with the quantity of renewable fuels we are required to blend under the rfs2. recently, due in part to the nation's fuel supply approaching the blend wall (the 10% ethanol limit prescribed by most automobile warranties), the price of rins has been extremely volatile with the price dramatically increasing in recognition of the decrease in rins availability. while we cannot predict the future prices of rins, the costs to obtain the necessary number of rins could be material. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance with the rfs2 on to our customers, if sufficient rins are unavailable for purchase, if we have to pay a significantly higher price for rins or if we are otherwise unable to meet the rfs2 mandates, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, the rfs2 regulations are highly complex and evolving, requiring us to periodically update our compliance systems. the rfs2 regulations require the epa to determine and publish the applicable annual volume and percentage standards for each compliance year by november 30 for the forthcoming year, and such blending percentages could be higher or lower than amounts estimated and accrued for in our consolidated financial statements. the future cost of rins is difficult to estimate until such time as the epa finalizes the applicable standards for the forthcoming compliance year. we cannot predict with certainty our exposure to increased rins costs in the future, nor can we predict the extent by which costs associated with rfs2 will impact our future results of operations. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry. we are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. the markets in which we compete may be impacted by competitors' plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability. also, the potential operation of new or expanded refined product transportation pipelines, or the conversion of existing pipelines into refined product transportation pipelines, could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets and negatively affect our profitability. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. the more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. there are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the united states. 27 table of content a disruption to or proration of the refined product distribution systems we utilize could negatively impact our profitability. we utilize various common carrier or other third party pipeline systems to deliver our products to market. the key systems utilized by the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross, and tulsa refineries are rocky mountain, nustar energy, sfpp and plains, chevron, and magellan, respectively. all five refineries also utilize systems owned by hep. if these key pipelines or their associated tanks and terminals become inoperative or decrease the capacity available to us, we may not be able to sell our product, or we may be required to hold our product in inventory or supply products to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by rail or additional tanker trucks from the refinery, all of which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. information technology system failures, network disruptions (whether intentional by a third party or due to natural disaster), breaches of network or data security, or disruption or failure of the network system used to monitor and control pipeline operations could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. this may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. the domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions are disrupted and volatile from time to time due to a variety of factors, including low consumer confidence, high unemployment, geoeconomic and geopolitical issues, weak economic conditions and uncertainty in the financial services sector. in addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility, which negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. recently, the equity and debt markets for many energy industry companies have been adversely affected by low oil prices. as a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from these markets diminished significantly. in particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease, to provide funding to borrowers. in addition, lending counterparties under any existing revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations, or we may experience a decrease in our capacity to issue debt or obtain commercial credit or a deterioration in our credit profile, including a rating agency lowering or withdrawing of our credit ratings if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be required to sell assets. moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or construction projects, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, comply with regulatory requirements, or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. failure to comply with regulatory requirements in a timely manner or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements could subject us to regulatory action. we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the crude supply and distribution network that serve our refineries, and we own a significant equity interest in hep. we currently own a 39% interest in hep, including the 2% general partner interest. hep operates a system of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines, distribution terminals and refinery tankage in arizona, idaho, kansas, nevada, new mexico, oklahoma, texas, utah, washington and wyoming. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross and tulsa refineries under several long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements expiring in 2019 through 2026 and serves the el dorado refinery under long-term tolling agreements expiring in 2030. furthermore, our financial statements include the consolidated results of hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on its significant customers, including us; competition from other pipelines; 28 table of content environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations; operational hazards and risks; pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge; limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep's debt covenants; and other financial, operational and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect hep's as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as hep is a consolidated vie. additionally, these risks could affect hep's ability to continue operations which could affect their ability to serve our supply and distribution network needs. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. for risks related to hep's business, see item 1a of hep's annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2015 . we are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our key customers and vendors. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers. if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. in addition, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide us with products or services could result in higher costs or interfere with our ability to successfully conduct our business. any substantial increase in the nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers or vendors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. terrorist attacks (including cyber-attacks), and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on september 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks (including cyber-attacks) on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are unknown. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. uncertainty surrounding continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror, may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products. in addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. increases in required fuel economy and regulation of co 2 emissions from motor vehicles may reduce demand for transportation fuels. in 2010, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) finalized new standards, raising the required corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) of the nation's passenger fleet by 40% to approximately 35 miles per gallon ( m.p.g. ) by 2016 and imposing the first-ever federal ghg emissions standards on cars and light trucks. in september 2011, the epa and the department of transportation finalized first-time standards for fuel economy of medium and heavy duty trucks. on august 28, 2012, the epa and nhtsa adopted standards through model year 2025 in two phases. the first phase establishes final standards for 2017-2021 model year vehicles that are projected to require 40.3 - 41.0 m.p.g. in model year 2021 on an average industry fleet-wide basis. the second phase of the cafe program represents non-final augural standards for 2022-2025 model year vehicles that are projected to require 48.7 - 49.7 m.p.g. in model year 2025, on an average industry fleet-wide basis. such increases in fuel economy standards, along with mandated increases in use of renewable fuels discussed above, could result in decreasing demand for petroleum fuels. decreasing demand for petroleum fuels could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operation. 29 table of content to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future major capital investment, various environmental compliance related projects, regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may not produce a return on investment. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. one or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. we have taken significant measures to expand and upgrade units in our refineries by installing new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve refinery capacity. the installation and redesign of key equipment at our refineries involves significant uncertainties, including the following: our upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels; operating costs of the upgraded equipment may be higher than expected; the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design and/or specifications and redesign, modification or replacement of the equipment may be required to correct equipment that does not perform as expected, which could require facility shutdowns until the equipment has been redesigned or modified. any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment, or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we expect to execute turnarounds at our refineries, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties. these risks include delays and incurrence of additional and unforeseen costs. the turnarounds allow us to perform maintenance, upgrades, overhaul and repair of process equipment and materials, during which time all or a portion of the refinery will be under scheduled downtime. we may be unable to pay future dividends. we will only be able to pay dividends from our available cash on hand, cash from operations or borrowings under our credit agreement. the declaration of future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, and restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. we cannot assure you that any dividends will be paid or the frequency or amounts of such payments. product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our operating responsibility on refined product pipelines is to insure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. if our quality control measures were to fail, we may have contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks or off-specification product could be sent to public gasoline stations. these types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers. product liability is a significant commercial risk. substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. there can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers. 30 table of content our hedging transactions may limit our gains and expose us to other risks. we periodically enter into derivative transactions as it relates to inventory levels and/or future production to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products and other feedstocks. these transactions limit our potential gains if commodity prices move above or below the certain price levels established by our hedging instruments. we hedge price risk on inventories above our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. consequently, our hedging results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. these transactions may also expose us to risks of financial losses; for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreements fails to perform its obligations under the agreements. changes in our credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. an unfavorable credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require credit enhancement. due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms or credit enhancement requirements on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. this in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at desired capacity. a failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. our credit facility contains certain covenants and restrictions that may constrain our business and financing activities. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. for example, our revolving credit facility imposes usual and customary requirements for this type of credit facility, including: (i) limitations on liens and indebtedness; (ii) a prohibition on changes in control and (iii) restrictions on engaging in mergers and consolidations. if we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in the credit facility or another event of default occurs under the credit facility, the maturity of the loan could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our future working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. if we desire to undertake a transaction that is prohibited by the covenants in our credit facility, we will need to obtain consent under our credit facility. such refinancing may not be possible or may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. our business may suffer due to a departure of any of our key senior executives or other key employees. furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance, non-compete agreements, or employment agreements with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. a shortage of trained workers due to retirements or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 34% of our employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates. we may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. a failure to do so may increase our costs. in addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and the value of a stockholder's investment could be impacted. the market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: 31 table of content our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; general economic, industry and stock market conditions; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; future sales of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; sales of common stock by us, our senior officers or our affiliates; and/or the other factors described in these risk factors. in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. this volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders plus (i) interest expense, net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under gaap; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda. years ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in thousands) net income attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders $ 740,101 $ 281,292 $ 735,842 add income tax provision 406,060 141,172 391,576 add interest expense (1) 44,840 51,323 90,159 subtract interest income (3,391 ) (4,430 ) (5,556 ) add depreciation and amortization 346,151 363,381 303,446 ebitda $ 1,533,761 $ 832,738 $ 1,515,467 48 table of content (1) includes loss on early extinguishment of debt of $1.4 million , $7.7 million and $22.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. refinery gross margin per barrel is the difference between average net sales price and average cost of products per barrel of produced refined products. net operating margin per barrel is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel of produced refined products. these two margins do not include the non-cash effects of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustments or depreciation and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. refinery gross and net operating margins below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for (i) net sales, cost of products (exclusive of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustment) and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold, and (ii) net operating margin and refinery gross margin. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. reconciliation of produced product sales to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 71.32 $ 110.19 $ 115.60 times sales of produced refined products (bpd) 438,000 420,990 410,730 times number of days in period 365 365 365 produced refined product sales $ 11,401,928 $ 16,931,944 $ 17,330,342 total produced refined product sales $ 11,401,928 $ 16,931,944 $ 17,330,342 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 1,214,920 1,566,925 1,581,395 total refined product sales 12,616,848 18,498,869 18,911,737 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 352,113 1,060,354 1,052,915 add other refining segment revenue (3) 202,222 147,002 140,791 total refining segment revenue 13,171,183 19,706,225 20,105,443 add hep segment sales and other revenues 358,875 332,626 307,053 add corporate and other revenues 663 2,103 1,314 subtract consolidations and eliminations (292,801 ) (276,627 ) (253,250 ) sales and other revenues $ 13,237,920 $ 19,764,327 $ 20,160,560 49 table of content reconciliation of average cost of products per produced barrel sold to cost of products sold (exclusive of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustment) years ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 55.25 $ 96.21 $ 99.61 times sales of produced refined products (bpd) 438,000 420,990 410,730 times number of days in period 365 365 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 8,832,818 $ 14,783,758 $ 14,933,178 total cost of products for produced products sold $ 8,832,818 $ 14,783,758 $ 14,933,178 add refined product costs from purchased products and rounding (1) 1,245,451 1,572,944 1,553,476 total cost of refined products sold 10,078,269 16,356,702 16,486,654 add crude oil cost of direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 348,362 1,030,235 1,048,224 add other refining segment cost of products sold (4) 98,979 113,664 106,241 total refining segment cost of products sold 10,525,610 17,500,601 17,641,119 subtract consolidations and eliminations (286,392 ) (272,216 ) (248,892 ) costs of products sold (exclusive of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustment and depreciation and amortization) $ 10,239,218 $ 17,228,385 $ 17,392,227 reconciliation of average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 5.71 $ 6.38 $ 6.15 times sales of produced refined products (bpd) 438,000 420,990 410,730 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 912,858 $ 980,359 $ 921,986 total refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 912,858 $ 980,359 $ 921,986 add refining segment pension settlement costs 31,657 add other refining segment operating expenses and rounding (5) 44,062 42,810 39,812 total refining segment operating expenses 956,920 1,023,169 993,455 add hep segment operating expenses 103,305 104,801 97,081 add corporate and other costs 3,433 18,402 1,739 subtract consolidations and eliminations (3,285 ) (1,432 ) (1,425 ) operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,060,373 $ 1,144,940 $ 1,090,850 50 table of content reconciliation of net operating margin per barrel to refinery gross margin per barrel to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2015 2014 2013 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated net operating margin per barrel $ 10.36 $ 7.60 $ 9.84 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 5.71 6.38 6.15 refinery gross margin per barrel 16.07 13.98 15.99 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 55.25 96.21 99.61 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 71.32 $ 110.19 $ 115.60 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 438,000 420,990 410,730 times number of days in period 365 365 365 produced refined product sales $ 11,401,928 $ 16,931,944 $ 17,330,342 total produced refined product sales $ 11,401,928 $ 16,931,944 $ 17,330,342 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 1,214,920 1,566,925 1,581,395 total refined product sales 12,616,848 18,498,869 18,911,737 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 352,113 1,060,354 1,052,915 add other refining segment revenue (3) 202,222 147,002 140,791 total refining segment revenue 13,171,183 19,706,225 20,105,443 add hep segment sales and other revenues 358,875 332,626 307,053 add corporate and other revenues 663 2,103 1,314 subtract consolidations and eliminations (292,801 ) (276,627 ) (253,250 ) sales and other revenues $ 13,237,920 $ 19,764,327 $ 20,160,560 (1) we purchase finished products to facilitate delivery to certain locations or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. additionally, at times we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at cost. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the incremental revenues associated with hfc asphalt, product purchased and sold forward for profit as market conditions and available storage capacity allows and miscellaneous revenue. (4) other refining segment cost of products sold includes the incremental cost of products for hfc asphalt, the incremental cost associated with storing product purchased and sold forward as market conditions and available storage capacity allows and miscellaneous costs. (5) other refining segment operating expenses include the marketing costs associated with our refining segment and the operating expenses of hfc asphalt. 51 table of contentrisk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the headings provided in this item 1a. are for convenience and reference purposes only and shall not affect or limit the extent or interpretation of the risk factors. the availability and cost of renewable identification numbers and other required credits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. pursuant to the 2007 energy independence and security act, the epa promulgated the rfs2 regulations reflecting the increased volume of renewable fuels mandated to be blended into the nation's fuel supply. the regulations, in part, require refiners to add annually increasing amounts of renewable fuels to their petroleum products or purchase credits, known as rins, in lieu of such blending. we currently purchase rins for some fuel categories on the open market in order to comply with the quantity of renewable fuels we are required to blend under the rfs2 regulations. recently, due in part to the nation's fuel supply approaching the blend wall (the 10% ethanol limit prescribed by most automobile warranties), the price of rins has been extremely volatile with the price dramatically increasing in recognition of the decrease in rins availability. while we cannot predict the future prices of rins, the costs to obtain the necessary number of rins could be material. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance with the rfs2 regulations on to our customers, if sufficient rins are unavailable for purchase, if we have to pay a significantly higher price for rins or if we are otherwise unable to meet the rfs2 mandates, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, the rfs2 regulations are highly complex and evolving, requiring us to periodically update our compliance systems. the rfs2 regulations require the epa to determine and publish the applicable annual volume and percentage standards for each compliance year by november 30 for the forthcoming year, and such blending percentages could be higher or lower than amounts estimated and accrued for in our consolidated financial statements. the future cost of rins is difficult to estimate until such time as the epa finalizes the applicable standards for the forthcoming compliance year. moreover, in addition to increased price volatility in the rin market, there have been multiple instances of rins fraud occurring in the marketplace over the past several years. the epa has initiated several enforcement actions against refiners who purchase fraudulent rins, resulting in substantial costs to the refiner. we cannot predict with certainty our exposure to increased rins costs in the future, nor can we predict the extent by which costs associated with rfs2 regulations will impact our future results of operations. the prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors, regional and grade differentials and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, product and crude pipeline capacities, crude oil differentials (including regional and grade differentials), changes in transportation costs, accidents or interruptions in transportation, competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve, and factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. 23 table of content we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates based upon worldwide and local market conditions. our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. for example, the reversal of certain existing pipelines or the construction of certain new pipelines transporting additional crude oil or refined products to markets that serve competing refineries could affect the market dynamic that has allowed us to take advantage of favorable pricing. also, in december 2015, the u.s. congress lifted the ban on the ability of producers to export domestic crude oil. this could potentially impact crack spreads and price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils. a deterioration of crack spreads or price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year and can vary year to year in the event of unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and / or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which we sell our petroleum products. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results, therefore, depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flow. also, crude oil supply contracts are generally short-term contracts with market-responsive pricing provisions. we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial condition and results of operations. also, our crude oil and refined products inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market under the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) inventory valuation methodology. if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our lifo cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of products sold even when there is no underlying economic impact at that point in time. for example, we recorded a non-cash decrease to cost of products sold in the amount of $291.9 million and an increase of $227.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. continued volatility in crude oil and refined products prices could result in additional lower of cost or market inventory charges in the future, or in reversals reducing cost of products sold in subsequent periods should prices recover. a material decrease in the supply of crude oil or other raw materials available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels and negatively affect our operations. to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. in addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries or the potential operation of a new, converted or expanded crude oil pipeline that transports crude oil to other markets could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. if we are unable to secure additional crude oil supplies of sufficient quality or crude pipeline expansion to our refineries, we will be unable to take full advantage of current and future expansion of our refineries' production capacities. for certain raw materials and utilities used by our refineries, there are a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. it is also common in the refining industry for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity, water and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources. the decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations. if our raw material, utility or water supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on our operations. 24 table of content we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. further, if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, if we are unsuccessful in integrating the operations of assets we acquire, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. additionally, our growth strategy includes projects that permit access to new and/or more profitable markets. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control, including: denial or delay in issuing requisite regulatory approvals and/or obtaining or renewing permits, licenses, registrations and other authorizations; societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition; compliance with or liability under environmental regulations; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires, spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. an additional component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets or businesses for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations and inefficiencies that may result therefrom; difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; difficulties or delays in achieving anticipated operational improvements or benefits; incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. any acquisitions that we do consummate may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. 25 table of content the anticipated benefits of our pcli acquisition may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected. the pcli acquisition will require management to devote significant attention and resources to integrating the pcli business with our business, and involves the operation of businesses in other countries. delays in this process could adversely affect our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. even if we are able to integrate our business operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that we currently expect from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame. we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, energy, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. our refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and distribution of petroleum and hazardous substances by pipeline, truck, rail and barge, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. in addition, as a result of our recent acquisition of pcli and its subsidiaries, we have manufacturing and distribution operations in canada that are subject to canadian national and provincial environmental laws and regulations and similar laws in other foreign countries. permits or other authorizations are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits and authorizations are subject to revocation, modification and renewal or may require operational changes, which may involve significant costs. furthermore, a violation of permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or refinery shutdowns. in addition, major modifications of our operations due to changes in the law could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. for example, in october 2015, the epa lowered the naaqs for ozone from 75 to 70 parts per billion for both the 8-hour primary and secondary standards. state implementation of the revised naaqs could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or prohibit our ability to obtain such permits, and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. also, in february 2016, a new epa rule became effective that amends three refinery standards already in effect, imposing additional or, in some cases, new emission control requirements on subject refineries. the final rule requires, among other things, benzene monitoring at the refinery fence line and submittal of fence line monitoring data to the epa on a quarterly basis; upgraded storage tank controls requirements, including new applicability thresholds; enhanced performance requirements for flares, continuous monitoring of flares and pressure release devices and analysis and remedy of flare release events; and compliance with emissions standards for delayed coking units. refineries have up to three years from the effective date of the final rule to come into compliance with certain requirements of the rule, such as the performance requirements for flares, while other aspects of the rule require compliance to be achieved at a sooner date. in july 2016, the epa issued a finale rule providing refiners an additional 18 months to comply with a small subset of the rules related to air emissions resulting from startup, shutdown and maintenance events. more recently, in december 2016, the epa granted petitions for reconsideration from industry and environmental organizations on aspects of the rule related to work practice standards for certain process units and equipment, as well as fence line monitoring requirements. to date, epa has not published revised rules. these new rules, as well as subsequent rulemaking under the caa or similar laws, or new agency interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may necessitate additional expenditures in future years and result in increased costs on our operations. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of our operations and capital requirements. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include, but are not limited to, soil, groundwater and waterway contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed. we are and have been the subject of various local, state, provincial, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. failure to appropriately manage occupational health and safety risks associated with our business could also adversely impact our employees, communities, stakeholders, reputation and results of operations. 26 table of content the costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. from time to time, new federal energy policy legislation is enacted by the u.s. congress or the government of canada. for example, in december 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act, which, among other provisions, mandates annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. in canada, fuel content legislation also exists at the federal and provincial level. these statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. in the near term, the new renewable fuel standard presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining industries and may require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased ethanol use. other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties, and item 3, legal proceedings. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce. the epa has determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gas emissions, or ghgs, present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal caa. for example, the epa adopted rules that require certain large stationary sources to obtain permits to authorize emissions of ghgs. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions from specified large ghg emission sources in the united states, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis. both the epa and environment and climate change canada have adopted regulations that limit ghg emissions from automobiles and light-duty trucks, which may result in a reduction in demand for the refined products that we produce. in addition, the u.s. congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs and almost one-half of the states have established cap and trade programs. these cap and trade programs generally work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and on an annual basis surrender emission allowances. the number of allowances available for purchase is reduced over time in an effort to achieve the overall ghg emission reduction goal. in canada, the federal and provincial governments have also considered, and in some cases adopted, legislation to reduce ghg emissions. to date, two provinces (quebec and ontario) have also adopted cap and trade programs. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the refined products that we produce. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 27 table of content our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, maritime disasters (including those involving marine vessels/terminals), fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, cyber-attacks, power failures, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events could result in an injury, loss of life, property damage or destruction, as well as a curtailment or an interruption in our operations and may affect our ability to meet marketing commitments. we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates and exclusions from coverage may limit our ability to recover the amount of the full loss in all situations. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. we are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business and therefore, we self-insure certain risks. if any refinery were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. the energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. in recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. as a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. in addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. further, our underwriters could have credit issues that affect their ability to pay claims. if a significant accident or event occurs that is self-insured or not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we continually monitor our business, the business environment and the performance of our operations to determine if an event has occurred that indicates that a long-lived asset or goodwill may be impaired. if a triggering event occurs, which is a determination that involves judgment, we may be required to utilize cash flow projections to assess our ability to recover the carrying value based on the ability to generate future cash flows. we may also conduct impairment testing based on both the guideline public company and guideline transaction methods. our long-lived assets and goodwill impairment analyses are sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, estimates of future crack spreads, forecasted production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures. if the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible a material impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any additional impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill in the future. as market prices for refined products and market prices for crude oil continue to fluctuate, we will need to continue to evaluate the carrying value of our refinery reporting units. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we recorded goodwill and long-lived asset impairment charges of $309.3 million and $344.8 million, respectively, on the carrying value of our cheyenne refinery. additionally, the fair value of our el dorado reporting unit currently exceeds its carrying value by approximately 20%. a reasonable expectation exists that future deterioration in gross margins could result in an impairment of goodwill and the long-lived assets of the el dorado reporting unit at some point in the future. any additional impairment charges that we may take in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry. 28 table of content we are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. the markets in which we compete may be impacted by competitors' plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability. also, the potential operation of new or expanded refined product transportation pipelines, or the conversion of existing pipelines into refined product transportation pipelines, could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets and negatively affect our profitability. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. the more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. there are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the united states. a disruption to or proration of the refined product distribution systems we utilize could negatively impact our profitability. we utilize various common carrier or other third party pipeline systems to deliver our products to market. the key systems utilized by the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross, and tulsa refineries are rocky mountain, nustar energy, sfpp and plains, chevron, and magellan, respectively. all five refineries also utilize systems owned by hep. if these key pipelines or their associated tanks and terminals become inoperative or decrease the capacity available to us, we may not be able to sell our product, or we may be required to hold our product in inventory or supply products to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by rail or additional tanker trucks from the refinery, all of which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. information technology system failures, network disruptions (whether intentional by a third party or due to natural disaster), breaches of network or data security, or disruption or failure of the network system used to monitor and control pipeline operations could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 29 table of content we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. this may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. the domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions are disrupted and volatile from time to time due to a variety of factors, including low consumer confidence, high unemployment, geoeconomic and geopolitical issues, weak economic conditions and uncertainty in the financial services sector. in addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility, which negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. recently, the equity and debt markets for many energy industry companies have been adversely affected by low oil prices. as a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from these markets diminished significantly. in particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease, to provide funding to borrowers. in addition, lending counterparties under any existing revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations, or we may experience a decrease in our capacity to issue debt or obtain commercial credit or a deterioration in our credit profile, including a rating agency lowering or withdrawing of our credit ratings if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be required to sell assets. moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or construction projects, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, comply with regulatory requirements, or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. failure to comply with regulatory requirements in a timely manner or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements could subject us to regulatory action. we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the crude supply and distribution network that serve our refineries, and we own a significant equity interest in hep. we currently own a 37% interest in hep, including the 2% general partner interest. hep operates a system of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines; distribution terminals and refinery tankage in arizona, idaho, kansas, nevada, new mexico, oklahoma, texas, utah, washington and wyoming and refinery units in kansas and utah. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross and tulsa refineries under several long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements expiring in 2019 through 2026, serves the el dorado refinery under long-term tolling agreements expiring in 2030 and serves the woods cross refinery under long-term tolling agreements expiring in 2031. furthermore, our financial statements include the consolidated results of hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on its significant customers, including us; competition from other pipelines; environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations; operational hazards and risks; pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge; limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep's debt covenants; and other financial, operational and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect hep's as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as hep is a consolidated vie. additionally, these risks could affect hep's ability to continue operations which could affect their ability to serve our supply and distribution network needs. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. for risks related to hep's business, see item 1a of hep's annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2016 . we are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our key customers and vendors. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers. 30 table of content if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. in addition, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide us with products or services could result in higher costs or interfere with our ability to successfully conduct our business. any substantial increase in the nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers or vendors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. terrorist attacks (including cyber-attacks), and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on september 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks (including cyber-attacks) on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are unknown. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. uncertainty surrounding continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror, may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products. in addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. increases in required fuel economy and regulation of co 2 emissions from motor vehicles may reduce demand for transportation fuels. in 2010, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) finalized new standards, raising the required corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) of the nation's passenger fleet by 40% to approximately 35 miles per gallon ( m.p.g. ) by 2016 and imposing the first-ever federal ghg emissions standards on cars and light trucks. in september 2011, the epa and the department of transportation finalized first-time standards for fuel economy of medium and heavy duty trucks. on august 28, 2012, the epa and nhtsa adopted standards through model year 2025 in two phases. the first phase establishes final standards for 2017-2021 model year vehicles that are projected to require 40.3 - 41.0 m.p.g. in model year 2021 on an average industry fleet-wide basis. the second phase of the cafe program represents non-final augural standards for 2022-2025 model year vehicles that are projected to require 48.7 - 49.7 m.p.g. in model year 2025, on an average industry fleet-wide basis. such increases in fuel economy standards, along with mandated increases in use of renewable fuels discussed above, could result in decreasing demand for petroleum fuels. decreasing demand for petroleum fuels could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operation. to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future major capital investment, various environmental compliance related projects, regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may not produce a return on investment. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. 31 table of content our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. one or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. we have taken significant measures to expand and upgrade units in our refineries by installing new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve refinery capacity. the installation and redesign of key equipment at our refineries involves significant uncertainties, including the following: our upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels; operating costs of the upgraded equipment may be higher than expected; the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design and/or specifications and redesign, modification or replacement of the equipment may be required to correct equipment that does not perform as expected, which could require facility shutdowns until the equipment has been redesigned or modified. any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment, or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we expect to execute turnarounds at our refineries, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties. these risks include delays and incurrence of additional and unforeseen costs. the turnarounds allow us to perform maintenance, upgrades, overhaul and repair of process equipment and materials, during which time all or a portion of the refinery will be under scheduled downtime. we may be unable to pay future dividends. we will only be able to pay dividends from our available cash on hand, cash from operations or borrowings under our credit agreement. the declaration of future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, and restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. we cannot assure you that any dividends will be paid or the frequency or amounts of such payments. product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our operating responsibility on refined product pipelines is to insure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. if our quality control measures were to fail, we may have contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks or off-specification product could be sent to public gasoline stations. these types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers. product liability is a significant commercial risk. substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. there can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers. our hedging transactions may limit our gains and expose us to other risks. we periodically enter into derivative transactions as it relates to inventory levels and/or future production to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products and other feedstocks. these transactions limit our potential gains if commodity prices move above or below the certain price levels established by our hedging instruments. we hedge price risk on inventories above our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. consequently, our hedging results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. these transactions may also expose us to risks of financial losses; for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreements fails to perform its obligations under the agreements. changes in our credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. an unfavorable credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require credit enhancement. due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms or credit enhancement requirements on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. this in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at desired capacity. a failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. 32 table of content our credit facility contains certain covenants and restrictions that may constrain our business and financing activities. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. for example, our revolving credit facility imposes usual and customary requirements for this type of credit facility, including: (i) limitations on liens and indebtedness; (ii) a prohibition on changes in control and (iii) restrictions on engaging in mergers and consolidations. if we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in the credit facility or another event of default occurs under the credit facility, the maturity of the loan could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our future working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. if we desire to undertake a transaction that is prohibited by the covenants in our credit facility, we will need to obtain consent under our credit facility. such refinancing may not be possible or may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. our business may suffer due to a departure of any of our key senior executives or other key employees. furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance, non-compete agreements, or employment agreements with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. a shortage of trained workers due to retirements or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 34% of our employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates. we may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. a failure to do so may increase our costs. in addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and the value of a stockholder's investment could be impacted. the market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; general economic, industry and stock market conditions; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; future sales of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; sales of common stock by us, our senior officers or our affiliates; and/or the other factors described in these risk factors. in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. this volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) and ebitda excluding non-cash lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustments and goodwill and asset impairment charges ( adjusted ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income (loss) attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders plus (i) interest expense, net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation and amortization. adjusted ebitda is calculated as ebitda plus or minus (i) lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustment and (ii) goodwill and asset impairment charges. ebitda and adjusted ebitda are not calculations provided for under gaap; however, the amounts included in these calculations are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda and adjusted ebitda should not be considered as alternatives to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda and adjusted ebitda are not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. they are presented here because they are widely used financial indicators used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda and adjusted ebitda are also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda and adjusted ebitda. years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in thousands) net income attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders $ (260,453 ) $ 740,101 $ 281,292 add income tax provision 19,411 406,060 141,172 add interest expense (1) 80,910 44,840 51,323 subtract interest income (2,491 ) (3,391 ) (4,430 ) add depreciation and amortization 363,027 346,151 363,381 ebitda $ 200,404 $ 1,533,761 $ 832,738 add (subtract) lower of cost or market inventory adjustment (291,938 ) 226,979 397,478 add goodwill and asset impairment 654,084 pcli pre-acquisition costs 13,406 adjusted ebitda $ 575,956 $ 1,760,740 $ 1,230,216 (1) includes loss on early extinguishment of debt of $8.7 million , $1.4 million and $7.7 million for the years ended december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. refinery gross margin per barrel is the difference between average net sales price and average cost of products per barrel of produced refined products. net operating margin per barrel is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel of produced refined products. these two margins do not include the non-cash effects of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustments, goodwill and asset impairment charges or depreciation and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. 52 table of content refinery gross and net operating margins below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for (i) net sales, cost of products (exclusive of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustment) and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold, and (ii) net operating margin and refinery gross margin. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. reconciliation of produced product sales to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 58.02 $ 71.32 $ 110.19 times sales of produced refined products (bpd) 435,420 438,000 420,990 times number of days in period 366 365 365 produced refined product sales $ 9,246,283 $ 11,401,928 $ 16,931,944 total produced refined product sales $ 9,246,283 $ 11,401,928 $ 16,931,944 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 624,233 1,214,920 1,566,925 total refined product sales 9,870,516 12,616,848 18,498,869 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 436,974 352,113 1,060,354 add other refining segment revenue (3) 159,700 202,222 147,002 total refining segment revenue 10,467,190 13,171,183 19,706,225 add hep segment sales and other revenues 402,043 358,875 332,626 add corporate and other revenues 168 663 2,103 subtract consolidations and eliminations (333,701 ) (292,801 ) (276,627 ) sales and other revenues $ 10,535,700 $ 13,237,920 $ 19,764,327 reconciliation of average cost of products per produced barrel sold to cost of products sold (exclusive of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustment) years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 49.64 $ 55.25 $ 96.21 times sales of produced refined products (bpd) 435,420 438,000 420,990 times number of days in period 366 365 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 7,910,815 $ 8,832,818 $ 14,783,758 total cost of products for produced products sold $ 7,910,815 $ 8,832,818 $ 14,783,758 add refined product costs from purchased products and rounding (1) 638,540 1,245,451 1,572,944 total cost of refined products sold 8,549,355 10,078,269 16,356,702 add crude oil cost of direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 441,180 348,362 1,030,235 add other refining segment cost of products sold (4) 72,222 98,979 113,664 total refining segment cost of products sold 9,062,757 10,525,610 17,500,601 subtract consolidations and eliminations (296,830 ) (286,392 ) (272,216 ) costs of products sold (exclusive of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustment and depreciation and amortization) $ 8,765,927 $ 10,239,218 $ 17,228,385 53 table of content reconciliation of average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 5.57 $ 5.71 $ 6.38 times sales of produced refined products (bpd) 435,420 438,000 420,990 times number of days in period 366 365 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 887,656 $ 912,858 $ 980,359 total refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 887,656 $ 912,858 $ 980,359 add other refining segment operating expenses and rounding (5) 35,934 41,813 41,426 total refining segment operating expenses 923,590 954,671 1,021,785 add hep segment operating expenses 123,985 105,554 106,185 add corporate and other costs 4,893 3,433 18,402 subtract consolidations and eliminations (33,629 ) (3,285 ) (1,432 ) operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,018,839 $ 1,060,373 $ 1,144,940 reconciliation of net operating margin per barrel to refinery gross margin per barrel to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2016 2015 2014 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated net operating margin per barrel $ 2.81 $ 10.36 $ 7.60 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 5.57 5.71 6.38 refinery gross margin per barrel 8.38 16.07 13.98 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 49.64 55.25 96.21 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 58.02 $ 71.32 $ 110.19 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 435,420 438,000 420,990 times number of days in period 366 365 365 produced refined product sales $ 9,246,283 $ 11,401,928 $ 16,931,944 total produced refined product sales $ 9,246,283 $ 11,401,928 $ 16,931,944 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 624,233 1,214,920 1,566,925 total refined product sales 9,870,516 12,616,848 18,498,869 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 436,974 352,113 1,060,354 add other refining segment revenue (3) 159,700 202,222 147,002 total refining segment revenue 10,467,190 13,171,183 19,706,225 add hep segment sales and other revenues 402,043 358,875 332,626 add corporate and other revenues 168 663 2,103 subtract consolidations and eliminations (333,701 ) (292,801 ) (276,627 ) sales and other revenues $ 10,535,700 $ 13,237,920 $ 19,764,327 (1) we purchase finished products to facilitate delivery to certain locations or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. additionally, at times we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at cost. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the incremental revenues associated with hfc asphalt, product purchased and sold forward for profit as market conditions and available storage capacity allows and miscellaneous revenue. (4) other refining segment cost of products sold includes the incremental cost of products for hfc asphalt, the incremental cost associated with storing product purchased and sold forward as market conditions and available storage capacity allows and miscellaneous costs. (5) other refining segment operating expenses include the marketing costs associated with our refining segment and the operating expenses of hfc asphalt. 54 table of contentrisk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the headings provided in this item 1a. are for convenience and reference purposes only and shall not affect or limit the extent or interpretation of the risk factors. the availability and cost of renewable identification numbers and other required credits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. pursuant to the 2007 energy independence and security act, the epa promulgated the rfs regulations reflecting the increased volume of renewable fuels mandated to be blended into the nation's fuel supply. the regulations, in part, require refiners to add annually increasing amounts of renewable fuels to their petroleum products or purchase credits, known as rins, in lieu of such blending. we currently purchase rins for some fuel categories on the open market in order to comply with the quantity of renewable fuels we are required to blend under the rfs regulations. recently, due in part to the nation's fuel supply approaching the blend wall (the 10% ethanol limit prescribed by most automobile warranties), the price of rins has been extremely volatile with the price dramatically increasing in recognition of the decrease in rins availability. while we cannot predict the future prices of rins, the costs to obtain the necessary number of rins could be material. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance with the rfs regulations on to our customers, if sufficient rins are unavailable for purchase, if we have to pay a significantly higher price for rins or if we are otherwise unable to meet the rfs mandates, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, the rfs regulations are highly complex and evolving, requiring us to periodically update our compliance systems. the rfs regulations require the epa to determine and publish the applicable annual volume and percentage standards for each compliance year by november 30 for the forthcoming year, and such blending percentages could be higher or lower than amounts estimated and accrued for in our consolidated financial statements. the future cost of rins is difficult to estimate until such time as the epa finalizes the applicable standards for the forthcoming compliance year. moreover, in addition to increased price volatility in the rin market, there have been multiple instances of rins fraud occurring in the marketplace over the past several years. the epa has initiated several enforcement actions against refiners who purchase fraudulent rins, resulting in substantial costs to the refiner. we cannot predict with certainty our exposure to increased rins costs in the future, nor can we predict the extent by which costs associated with rfs regulations will impact our future results of operations. the prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors, regional and grade differentials and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, product and crude pipeline capacities, crude oil differentials (including regional and grade differentials), changes in transportation costs, accidents or interruptions in transportation, competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve, and factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. 22 table of content we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates based upon worldwide and local market conditions. our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. for example, the reversal of certain existing pipelines or the construction of certain new pipelines transporting additional crude oil or refined products to markets that serve competing refineries could affect the market dynamic that has allowed us to take advantage of favorable pricing. also, in december 2015, the u.s. congress lifted the ban on the ability of producers to export domestic crude oil. this could potentially impact crack spreads and price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils. a deterioration of crack spreads or price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year and can vary year to year in the event of unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and / or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which we sell our petroleum products. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results, therefore, depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flow. also, crude oil supply contracts are generally short-term contracts with market-responsive pricing provisions. we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial condition and results of operations. also, our crude oil and refined products inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market under the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) inventory valuation methodology. if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our lifo cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of products sold even when there is no underlying economic impact at that point in time. continued volatility in crude oil and refined products prices could result in lower of cost or market inventory charges in the future, or in reversals reducing cost of products sold in subsequent periods should prices recover. for example, we recorded a non-cash decrease to cost of products sold in the amount of $108.7 million and $291.9 million for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. a material decrease in the supply of crude oil or other raw materials available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels and negatively affect our operations. to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. in addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries or the potential operation of a new, converted or expanded crude oil pipeline that transports crude oil to other markets could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. if we are unable to secure additional crude oil supplies of sufficient quality or crude pipeline expansion to our refineries, we will be unable to take full advantage of current and future expansion of our refineries' production capacities. for certain raw materials and utilities used by our refineries, there are a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. it is also common in the refining industry for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity, water and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources. the decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations. if our raw material, utility or water supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on our operations. 23 table of content we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. further, if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, if we are unsuccessful in integrating the operations of assets we acquire, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. additionally, our growth strategy includes projects that permit access to new and/or more profitable markets. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control, including: third party challenges to, denials, or delays with respect to the issuance of requisite regulatory approvals and/or obtaining or renewing permits, licenses, registrations and other authorizations; societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition; compliance with or liability under environmental regulations; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires, spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. an additional component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets or businesses for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations and inefficiencies that may result therefrom; difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; difficulties or delays in achieving anticipated operational improvements or benefits; incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. any acquisitions that we do consummate may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. 24 table of content currency fluctuations or devaluations may impact our operating results . fluctuations or devaluations in foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar can impact our revenue and our costs of doing business. most of our products and services are sold through contracts denominated in u.s. dollars; however, some of our revenue, local expenses and manufacturing costs are incurred in local currencies and, therefore, changes in the exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies can increase or decrease our revenue and expenses reported in u.s. dollars and may impact our results of operations. any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the u.s. dollar could affect our competitiveness and control of our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the canadian dollar, the euro and the chinese renminbi. we recognize foreign currency transaction gains and losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. as a result, currency fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction and translation gains and losses, which could be material. we cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates our business is subject to the risks of international operations. we derive a portion of our revenue and earnings from international operations. compliance with applicable u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, such as import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, environmental laws, labor laws and anti-competition regulations, increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. although we have implemented policies and procedures to comply with these laws and regulations, a violation by any of our employees, contractors or agents could nevertheless occur. in some cases, compliance with the laws and regulations of one country could violate the laws and regulations of another country. violations of these laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our company's brand, international growth efforts and business. we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, energy, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. our refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and distribution of petroleum and hazardous substances by pipeline, truck, rail and barge, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. in addition, as a result of our recent acquisition of pcli, we have manufacturing and distribution operations in canada that are subject to canadian national and provincial environmental laws and regulations and similar laws in other foreign countries. permits or other authorizations are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits and authorizations are subject to revocation, modification and renewal or may require operational changes, which may involve significant costs. furthermore, a violation of permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or refinery shutdowns. in addition, major modifications of our operations due to changes in the law could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. for example, in october 2015, the epa lowered the naaqs for ozone from 75 to 70 parts per billion for both the 8-hour primary and secondary standards. the epa published a final rule in november 2017 that issued area designations with respect to ground level ozone for approximately 85% of the u.s. counties as either attainment/unclassifiable or unclassifiable. in december 2017, the epa responded to states' preliminary non-attainment designations, and expects to issue final non-attainment designations during the first half of 2018. state implementation of the revised naaqs could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or prohibit our ability to obtain such permits, and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. also, in february 2016, a new epa rule became effective that amends three refinery standards already in effect, imposing additional or, in some cases, new emission control requirements on subject refineries. the final rule requires, among other things, benzene monitoring at the refinery fence line and submittal of fence line monitoring data to the epa on a quarterly basis; upgraded storage tank controls requirements, including new applicability thresholds; enhanced performance requirements for flares, continuous monitoring of flares and pressure release devices and analysis and remedy of flare release events; and compliance with emissions standards for delayed coking units. refineries have up to three years from the effective date of the final rule to come into compliance with certain requirements of the rule, such as the performance requirements for flares, while other aspects of the rule require compliance to be achieved at a sooner date. for example, the rule's fence line monitoring requirements became effective january 31, 2018. in july 2016, the epa issued a finale rule providing refiners an additional 18 months to comply with a small subset of the rules related to air emissions resulting from startup, shutdown and maintenance events. in december 2016, the epa granted petitions for reconsideration from industry and environmental organizations on aspects of the rule related to work practice standards 25 table of content for certain process units and equipment, as well as fence line monitoring requirements. to date, epa has not published revised rules. these new rules, as well as subsequent rulemaking under the caa or similar laws, or new agency interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may necessitate additional expenditures in future years and result in increased costs on our operations. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of our operations and capital requirements. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include, but are not limited to, soil, groundwater and waterway contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed. we are and have been the subject of various local, state, provincial, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations but cannot guarantee that these efforts will always be successful. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. failure to appropriately manage occupational health and safety risks associated with our business could also adversely impact our employees, communities, stakeholders, reputation and results of operations. the costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. from time to time, new federal energy policy legislation is enacted by the u.s. congress or the federal or provincial governments of canada. for example, in december 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act, which, among other provisions, mandates annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. in canada, fuel content legislation also exists at the federal and provincial level. these statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. in the near term, the new renewable fuel standard presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining industries and may require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased ethanol use. other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties, and item 3, legal proceedings. the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce. the epa has determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gas emissions, or ghgs, present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal caa. for example, the epa adopted rules that require certain large stationary sources to obtain permits to authorize emissions of ghgs. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions from specified large ghg emission sources in the united states, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis. both the epa and environment and climate change canada have adopted regulations that limit ghg emissions from automobiles and light-duty trucks, which may result in a reduction in demand for the refined products that we produce. 26 table of content although the u.s. congress has previously considered legislation to reduce ghg emissions, federal legislative action appears unlikely at this time. meanwhile, many states have pursued or are considering their own initiatives designed to reduce ghg emissions, such as cap and trade programs, carbon taxes, low carbon fuel standards, and vehicle efficiency standards. similar measures are being pursued in canada at the federal and provincial level, and the provinces of quebec, ontario, and alberta have all implemented either cap and trade programs or levied carbon taxes. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the refined products that we produce. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, maritime disasters (including those involving marine vessels/terminals), fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, cyber-attacks, power failures, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events could result in an injury, loss of life, property damage or destruction, as well as a curtailment or an interruption in our operations and may affect our ability to meet marketing commitments. we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates and exclusions from coverage may limit our ability to recover the amount of the full loss in all situations. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. we are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business and therefore, we self-insure certain risks. if any refinery were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. the energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. in recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. as a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. in addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. further, our underwriters could have credit issues that affect their ability to pay claims. if a significant accident or event occurs that is self-insured or not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we continually monitor our business, the business environment and the performance of our operations to determine if an event has occurred that indicates that a long-lived asset or goodwill may be impaired. if a triggering event occurs, which is a determination that involves judgment, we may be required to utilize cash flow projections to assess our ability to recover the carrying value based on the ability to generate future cash flows. we may also conduct impairment testing based on both the guideline public company and guideline transaction methods. our long-lived assets and goodwill impairment analyses are sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, estimates of future crack spreads, forecasted production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures. if the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible a material impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any additional impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill in the future. 27 table of content as market prices for refined products and market prices for crude oil continue to fluctuate, we will need to continue to evaluate the carrying value of our refinery reporting units. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we recorded goodwill and long-lived asset impairment charges of $309.3 million and $344.8 million, respectively, on the carrying value of our cheyenne refinery. a reasonable expectation exists that future deterioration in gross margins could result in an impairment of goodwill and the long-lived assets of the el dorado reporting unit at some point in the future. any additional impairment charges that we may take in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry. we are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. the markets in which we compete may be impacted by competitors' plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability. also, the potential operation of new or expanded refined product transportation pipelines, or the conversion of existing pipelines into refined product transportation pipelines, could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets and negatively affect our profitability. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. the more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. there are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the united states. a disruption to or proration of the refined product distribution systems we utilize could negatively impact our profitability. we utilize various common carrier or other third party pipeline systems to deliver our products to market. the key systems utilized by the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross, and tulsa refineries are rocky mountain, nustar energy, sfpp and plains, chevron, and magellan, respectively. all five refineries also utilize systems owned by hep. if these key pipelines or their associated tanks and terminals become inoperative or decrease the capacity available to us, we may not be able to sell our product, or we may be required to hold our product in inventory or supply products to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by rail or additional tanker trucks from the refinery, all of which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. information technology system failures, network disruptions (whether intentional by a third party or due to natural disaster), breaches of network or data security, or disruption or failure of the network system used to monitor and control pipeline operations could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 28 table of content we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. this may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. the domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions are disrupted and volatile from time to time due to a variety of factors, including low consumer confidence, high unemployment, geoeconomic and geopolitical issues, weak economic conditions and uncertainty in the financial services sector. in addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility, which negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. recently, the equity and debt markets for many energy industry companies have been adversely affected by low oil prices. as a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from these markets diminished significantly. in particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease to provide, funding to borrowers. in addition, lending counterparties under any existing revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations, or we may experience a decrease in our capacity to issue debt or obtain commercial credit or a deterioration in our credit profile, including a rating agency lowering or withdrawing of our credit ratings if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be required to sell assets. moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or construction projects, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, comply with regulatory requirements, or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. failure to comply with regulatory requirements in a timely manner or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements could subject us to regulatory action. we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the crude supply and distribution network that serve our refineries, and we own a significant equity interest in hep. at december 31, 2017 , we owned a 59% limited partner interest and a non-economic general partner interest in hep. hep operates a system of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines; distribution terminals and refinery tankage in arizona, idaho, kansas, nevada, new mexico, oklahoma, texas, utah, washington and wyoming and refinery units in kansas and utah. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, leasing certain pipeline capacity to delek, charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross and tulsa refineries under several long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements expiring in 2020 through 2036, serves the el dorado refinery under long-term tolling agreements expiring in 2030 and serves the woods cross refinery under long-term tolling agreements expiring in 2031. furthermore, our financial statements include the consolidated results of hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on its significant customers, including us; competition from other pipelines; environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations; operational hazards and risks; pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge; limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep's debt covenants; and other financial, operational and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect hep's as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as hep is a consolidated vie. additionally, these risks could affect hep's ability to continue operations which could affect their ability to serve our supply and distribution network needs. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. for risks related to hep's business, see item 1a of hep's annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2017 . we are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our key customers and vendors. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers. 29 table of content if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. in addition, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide us with products or services could result in higher costs or interfere with our ability to successfully conduct our business. any substantial increase in the nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers or vendors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. terrorist attacks (including cyber-attacks), and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks and the threat of future terrorist attacks (including cyber-attacks) on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are unknown. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. uncertainty surrounding continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror, may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products. in addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. increases in required fuel economy and regulation of co 2 emissions from motor vehicles may reduce demand for transportation fuels. in 2010, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) finalized new standards, raising the required corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) of the nation's passenger fleet by 40% to approximately 35 miles per gallon ( m.p.g. ) by 2016 and imposing the first-ever federal ghg emissions standards on cars and light trucks. in september 2011, the epa and the department of transportation finalized first-time standards for fuel economy of medium and heavy duty trucks. on august 28, 2012, the epa and nhtsa adopted standards through model year 2025 in two phases. the first phase establishes final standards for 2017-2021 model year vehicles that are projected to require 40.3 - 41.0 m.p.g. in model year 2021 on an average industry fleet-wide basis. the second phase of the cafe program represents non-final augural standards for 2022-2025 model year vehicles that are projected to require 48.7 - 49.7 m.p.g. in model year 2025, on an average industry fleet-wide basis. in 2017, the epa and nhtsa announced that the agencies were reconsidering the second phase cafe standards, which could result in maintaining the first phase standards for the 2022-2025 model years. a final decision is expected during the first half of 2018. any increases in fuel economy standards, along with mandated increases in use of renewable fuels discussed above, could result in decreasing demand for petroleum fuels. decreasing demand for petroleum fuels could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operation. to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future major capital investment, various environmental compliance related projects, regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may not produce a return on investment. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. 30 table of content our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. one or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. we have taken significant measures to expand and upgrade units in our refineries by installing new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve refinery capacity. the installation and redesign of key equipment at our refineries involves significant uncertainties, including the following: our upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels; operating costs of the upgraded equipment may be higher than expected; the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design and/or specifications and redesign, modification or replacement of the equipment may be required to correct equipment that does not perform as expected, which could require facility shutdowns until the equipment has been redesigned or modified. any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment, or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we expect to execute turnarounds at our refineries, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties. these risks include delays and incurrence of additional and unforeseen costs. the turnarounds allow us to perform maintenance, upgrades, overhaul and repair of process equipment and materials, during which time all or a portion of the refinery will be under scheduled downtime. we may be unable to pay future dividends. we will only be able to pay dividends from our available cash on hand, cash from operations or borrowings under our credit agreement. the declaration of future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, and restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. we cannot assure you that any dividends will be paid or the frequency or amounts of such payments. product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. a significant portion of our operating responsibility on refined product pipelines is to insure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. if our quality control measures were to fail, we may have contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks or off-specification product could be sent to public gasoline stations. these types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers. product liability is a significant commercial risk. substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. there can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers. our hedging transactions may limit our gains and expose us to other risks. we periodically enter into derivative transactions as it relates to inventory levels and/or future production to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products and other feedstocks. these transactions limit our potential gains if commodity prices move above or below the certain price levels established by our hedging instruments. we hedge price risk on inventories above our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. consequently, our hedging results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. these transactions may also expose us to risks of financial losses; for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreements fails to perform its obligations under the agreements. changes in our credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. an unfavorable credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require credit enhancement. due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms or credit enhancement requirements on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. this in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at desired capacity. a failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. 31 table of content our credit facility contains certain covenants and restrictions that may constrain our business and financing activities. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. for example, our revolving credit facility imposes usual and customary requirements for this type of credit facility, including: (i) limitations on liens and indebtedness; (ii) a prohibition on changes in control and (iii) restrictions on engaging in mergers and consolidations. if we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in the credit facility or another event of default occurs under the credit facility, the maturity of the loan could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our future working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. if we desire to undertake a transaction that is prohibited by the covenants in our credit facility, we will need to obtain consent under our credit facility. such refinancing may not be possible or may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. our business may suffer due to a departure of any of our key senior executives or other key employees. furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance, non-compete agreements, or employment agreements with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. a shortage of trained workers due to retirements or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 33% of our employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates. we may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. a failure to do so may increase our costs. in addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and the value of a stockholder's investment could be impacted. the market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; general economic, industry and stock market conditions; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; future sales of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; sales of common stock by us, our senior officers or our affiliates; and/or the other factors described in these risk factors. in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. this volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income (loss) attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders plus (i) interest expense, net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under gaap; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation is derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda. years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 (in thousands) net income (loss) attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders $ 805,395 $ (260,453 ) $ 740,101 add (subtract) income tax provision (12,379 ) 19,411 406,060 add interest expense (1) 129,822 80,910 44,840 subtract interest income (3,736 ) (2,491 ) (3,391 ) add depreciation and amortization 409,937 363,027 346,151 ebitda $ 1,329,039 $ 200,404 $ 1,533,761 (1) includes loss on early extinguishment of debt of $12.2 million , $8.7 million and $1.4 million for the years ended december 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. refinery gross margin per produced barrel sold is total refining segment revenues less total refining segment cost of products sold, exclusive of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustments, divided by sales volumes of produced refined products sold. net operating margin per barrel sold is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel sold. these two margins do not include the non-cash effects of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustments, goodwill and asset impairment charges or depreciation and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for refinery net operating and gross margin and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. 51 table of content reconciliation of average refining segment net operating margin per produced barrel sold to refinery gross margin to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated net operating margin per produced barrel sold $ 5.46 $ 2.52 $ 10.06 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold 6.10 5.64 5.82 refinery gross margin per produced barrel sold 11.56 8.16 15.88 times produced barrels sold (bpd) 452,270 440,640 442,650 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refining segment gross margin 1,908,308 1,315,998 2,565,688 add rounding 409 1,212 1,156 total refining segment gross margin 1,908,717 1,317,210 2,566,844 add refining segment cost of products sold 11,009,345 9,003,505 10,472,268 refining segment sales and other revenues 12,918,062 10,320,715 13,039,112 add lubricants and specialty products segment sales and other revenues 1,594,036 464,359 493,282 add hep segment sales and other revenues 454,362 402,043 358,875 subtract corporate, other and eliminations (715,161 ) (651,417 ) (653,349 ) sales and other revenues $ 14,251,299 $ 10,535,700 $ 13,237,920 reconciliation of average refining segment operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2017 2016 2015 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average refining operating expenses per barrel sold $ 6.10 $ 5.64 $ 5.82 times barrels sold (bpd) 452,270 440,640 442,650 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refinery operating expenses 1,006,979 909,587 940,321 add (subtract) rounding (304 ) 137 308 total refining segment operating expenses 1,006,675 909,724 940,629 add lubricants and specialty products segment operating expenses 222,461 13,867 14,042 add hep segment operating expenses 137,605 123,984 105,554 add (subtract) corporate, other and eliminations (72,507 ) (28,736 ) 148 operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,294,234 $ 1,018,839 $ 1,060,373 52 table of contentrisk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the headings provided in this item 1a. are for convenience and reference purposes only and shall not affect or limit the extent or interpretation of the risk factors. the availability and cost of renewable identification numbers and other required credits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. pursuant to the 2007 energy independence and security act, the epa promulgated the rfs regulations reflecting the increased volume of renewable fuels mandated to be blended into the nation's fuel supply. the regulations, in part, require refiners to add annually increasing amounts of renewable fuels to their petroleum products or purchase credits, known as rins, in lieu of such blending. we currently purchase rins for some fuel categories on the open market in order to comply with the quantity of renewable fuels we are required to blend under the rfs regulations. since the epa first began mandating biofuels in excess of the blend wall (the 10% ethanol limit prescribed by most automobile warranties), the price of rins has been extremely volatile. while we cannot predict the future prices of rins, the costs to obtain the necessary number of rins could be material. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance with the rfs regulations on to our customers, if sufficient rins are unavailable for purchase, if we 20 table of content have to pay a significantly higher price for rins or if we are otherwise unable to meet the rfs mandates, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, the rfs regulations are highly complex and evolving, requiring us to periodically update our compliance systems. the rfs regulations require the epa to determine and publish the applicable annual volume and percentage standards for each compliance year by november 30 for the forthcoming year, and such blending percentages could be higher or lower than amounts estimated and accrued for in our consolidated financial statements. the future cost of rins is difficult to estimate until such time as the epa finalizes the applicable standards for the forthcoming compliance year. moreover, in addition to increased price volatility in the rin market, there have been multiple instances of rins fraud occurring in the marketplace over the past several years. the epa has initiated several enforcement actions against refiners who purchase fraudulent rins, resulting in substantial costs to the refiner. we cannot predict with certainty our exposure to increased rins costs in the future, nor can we predict the extent by which costs associated with rfs regulations will impact our future results of operations. the prices of crude oil and refined and finished lubricant products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors, regional and grade differentials and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined and finished lubricant products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, product and crude pipeline capacities, crude oil differentials (including regional and grade differentials), changes in transportation costs, accidents or interruptions in transportation, competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve, and factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined and finished lubricant products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition, which results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates based upon worldwide and local market conditions. our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. for example, the reversal of certain existing pipelines or the construction of certain new pipelines transporting additional crude oil or refined products to markets that serve competing refineries could affect the market dynamic that has allowed us to take advantage of favorable pricing. also, in december 2015, the u.s. congress lifted the ban on the ability of producers to export domestic crude oil. this could potentially impact crack spreads and price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils. a deterioration of crack spreads or price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 table of content additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year and can vary year to year in the event of unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and / or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which we sell our petroleum products. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results, therefore, depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flow. also, crude oil supply contracts are generally short-term contracts with market-responsive pricing provisions. we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial condition and results of operations. also, our crude oil and refined products inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market under the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) inventory valuation methodology. if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our lifo cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of products sold even when there is no underlying economic impact at that point in time. continued volatility in crude oil and refined products prices could result in lower of cost or market inventory charges in the future, or in reversals reducing cost of products sold in subsequent periods should prices recover. for example, we recorded a non-cash increase to cost of products sold in the amount of $136.3 million and a decrease of $108.7 million for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. a material decrease in the supply of crude oil or other raw materials available to our refineries and other facilities could significantly reduce our production levels and negatively affect our operations. to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. in addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries or the potential operation of a new, converted or expanded crude oil pipeline that transports crude oil to other markets could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. if we are unable to secure additional crude oil supplies of sufficient quality or crude pipeline expansion to our refineries, we will be unable to take full advantage of current and future expansion of our refineries' production capacities. for certain raw materials and utilities used by our refineries and other facilities, there are a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, we source from a single supplier and/or suppliers in economies that have experienced instability or the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. any significant disruption in supply could affect our ability to obtain raw materials, or increase the cost of such raw materials, which could significantly reduce our production levels or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, certain raw materials that we use are subject to various regulatory laws, and a change in the ability to legally use such raw materials may impact our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. it is also common in the refining industry for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity, water and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources. the decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations. if our raw material, utility or water supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on our operations. 22 table of content we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. further, if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, if we are unsuccessful in integrating the operations of assets we acquire, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. additionally, our growth strategy includes projects that permit access to new and/or more profitable markets. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control, including: third party challenges to, denials, or delays with respect to the issuance of requisite regulatory approvals and/or obtaining or renewing permits, licenses, registrations and other authorizations; societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition; compliance with or liability under environmental regulations; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires, spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. an additional component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets or businesses for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations and inefficiencies that may result therefrom; difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; difficulties or delays in achieving anticipated operational improvements or benefits or inaccurate assumptions about future synergies or revenues; incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. any acquisitions that we do consummate may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. 23 table of content our ability to grow our lubricants and specialty products segment depends, in part, on our ability to continuously develop, manufacture and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis, in response to customers' demands for higher performance process lubricants, coatings, greases and other product offerings. our competitors may develop new products or enhancements to their products that offer performance, features and lower prices that may render our products less competitive or obsolete, and, as a consequence, we may lose business and/or significant market share. our efforts to respond to changes in consumer demand in a timely and cost-efficient manner to drive growth could be adversely affected by unfavorable margins or difficulties or delays in product development and service innovation, including the inability to identify viable new products, successfully complete research and development, obtain regulatory approvals, obtain intellectual property protection or gain market acceptance of new products or service techniques. the development and commercialization of new products require significant expenditures over an extended period of time, and some products that we seek to develop may never become profitable, and we could be required to write-off our investments related to a new product that does not reach commercial viability. currency fluctuations or devaluations may impact our operating results . fluctuations or devaluations in foreign currencies relative to the u.s. dollar can impact our revenue and our costs of doing business. most of our products and services are sold through contracts denominated in u.s. dollars; however, some of our revenue, local expenses and manufacturing costs are incurred in local currencies and, therefore, changes in the exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and foreign currencies can increase or decrease our revenue and expenses reported in u.s. dollars and may impact our results of operations. we recognize foreign currency transaction gains and losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. as a result, currency fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction and translation gains and losses, which could be material. any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the u.s. dollar could affect our competitiveness and control of our cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to the risks of international operations. we derive a portion of our revenue and earnings from international operations. compliance with applicable u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, such as import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, environmental laws, labor laws and anti-competition regulations, increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. although we have implemented policies and procedures to comply with these laws and regulations, a violation by any of our employees, contractors or agents could nevertheless occur. in some cases, compliance with the laws and regulations of one country could violate the laws and regulations of another country. violations of these laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our company's brand, international growth efforts and business. we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, energy, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. our refinery and pipeline operations are subject to international, federal, state, provincial and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and distribution of petroleum and hazardous substances by pipeline, truck, rail and barge, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. in addition, as a result of recent acquisitions, we have manufacturing and distribution operations in foreign countries that are subject to environmental laws and regulations of such foreign countries. permits or other authorizations are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits and authorizations are subject to revocation, modification and renewal or may require operational changes, which may involve significant costs. furthermore, a violation of permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or refinery shutdowns. in addition, major modifications of our operations due to changes in the law could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. for example, in october 2015, the epa lowered the naaqs for ozone from 75 to 70 parts per billion for both the 8-hour primary and secondary standards. the epa published a final rule in november 2017 that issued area designations with respect to ground level ozone for approximately 85% of the u.s. counties as either attainment/unclassifiable or unclassifiable. by final rulemakings published in june and july 2018, the epa established ozone air quality designations for the areas not addressed in its november 2017 rulemaking. state implementation of the revised naaqs could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or prohibit our ability to obtain such permits, and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. also, in february 2016, a new epa rule became effective that amends three refinery standards already in effect, imposing additional or, in some cases, new emission control requirements on subject refineries. the final rule requires, among other things, benzene monitoring at the refinery fence line and submittal of fence line monitoring data to the epa on a quarterly basis; upgraded storage tank controls requirements, including new applicability thresholds; enhanced performance requirements for flares, continuous monitoring of flares and pressure 24 table of content release devices and analysis and remedy of flare release events; and compliance with emissions standards for delayed coking units. refineries have up to three years from the effective date of the final rule to come into compliance with certain requirements of the rule, such as the performance requirements for flares, while other aspects of the rule require compliance to be achieved at a sooner date. for example, the rule's fence line monitoring requirements became effective january 31, 2018. in july 2016, the epa issued a final rule providing refiners an additional 18 months to comply with a small subset of the rules related to air emissions resulting from startup, shutdown and maintenance events. in december 2016, the epa granted petitions for reconsideration from industry and environmental organizations on aspects of the rule related to work practice standards for certain process units and equipment, as well as fence line monitoring requirements. in november 2018, the epa published amendments to the new rules to clarify and correct certain requirements. these new rules, as well as subsequent rulemaking under the caa or similar laws, or new agency interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may necessitate additional expenditures in future years and result in increased costs on our operations. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of our operations and capital requirements. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include, but are not limited to, soil, groundwater and waterway contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed. we are and have been the subject of various local, state, provincial, federal, international and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations but cannot guarantee that these efforts will always be successful. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. failure to appropriately manage occupational health and safety risks associated with our business could also adversely impact our employees, communities, stakeholders, reputation and results of operations. the costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. from time to time, new federal energy policy legislation is enacted by the u.s. congress or the governments of other foreign countries in which we operate. for example, in december 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act, which, among other provisions, mandates annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. in canada, fuel content legislation also exists at the federal and provincial level. these statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. in the near term, the new renewable fuel standard presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining industries and may require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased ethanol use. other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties, and item 3, legal proceedings. 25 table of content the adoption of climate change legislation or regulations could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce. the epa has determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gas emissions, or ghgs, present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal caa. for example, the epa adopted rules that require certain large stationary sources to obtain permits to authorize emissions of ghgs. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions from specified large ghg emission sources in the united states, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis. both the epa and environment and climate change canada have adopted regulations that limit ghg emissions from automobiles and light-duty trucks, which may result in a reduction in demand for the refined products that we produce. similar regulations may exist or be enacted in other foreign countries in which we operate. although the u.s. congress has previously considered legislation to reduce ghg emissions, federal legislative action appears unlikely at this time. meanwhile, many states have pursued or are considering their own initiatives designed to reduce ghg emissions, such as cap and trade programs, carbon taxes, low carbon fuel standards, and vehicle efficiency standards. similar measures are being pursued in canada at the federal and provincial level, and the provinces of quebec, ontario, and alberta have all implemented either cap and trade programs or levied carbon taxes. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the refined products that we produce. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions and other disruptive risks for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards, unforeseen interruptions and other disruptive risks such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, maritime disasters (including those involving marine vessels/terminals), fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, cyber-attacks, power failures, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events could result in an injury, loss of life, property damage or destruction, as well as a curtailment or an interruption in our operations and may affect our ability to meet marketing commitments. we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates and exclusions from coverage may limit our ability to recover the amount of the full loss in all situations. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. we are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business and therefore, we self-insure certain risks. if any refinery were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. the energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. in recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. as a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. in addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. further, our underwriters could have credit issues that affect their ability to pay claims. if a significant accident or event occurs that is self-insured or not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 26 table of content an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we continually monitor our business, the business environment and the performance of our operations to determine if an event has occurred that indicates that a long-lived asset or goodwill may be impaired. if a triggering event occurs, which is a determination that involves judgment, we may be required to utilize cash flow projections to assess our ability to recover the carrying value based on the ability to generate future cash flows. we may also conduct impairment testing based on both the guideline public company and guideline transaction methods. our long-lived assets and goodwill impairment analyses are sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, estimates of future crack spreads, forecasted production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures. if the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible a material impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any additional impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill in the future. as market prices for refined products and market prices for crude oil continue to fluctuate, we will need to continue to evaluate the carrying value of our refinery reporting units. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we recorded goodwill and long-lived asset impairment charges of $309.3 million and $344.8 million, respectively, on the carrying value of our cheyenne refinery. a reasonable expectation exists that future deterioration in gross margins could result in an impairment of goodwill and the long-lived assets of the el dorado reporting unit at some point in the future. any additional impairment charges that we may take in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry. we are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. the markets in which we compete may be impacted by competitors' plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability. also, the potential operation of new or expanded refined product transportation pipelines, or the conversion of existing pipelines into refined product transportation pipelines, could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets and negatively affect our profitability. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. the more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. there are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the united states. 27 table of content a disruption to or proration of the refined product distribution systems or manufacturing facilities we utilize could negatively impact our profitability. we utilize various common carrier or other third party pipeline systems to deliver our products to market. the key systems utilized by the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross, and tulsa refineries are rocky mountain, nustar energy and magellan, sfpp and plains, chevron and unev, and magellan, respectively. all five refineries also utilize systems owned by hep. if these key pipelines or their associated tanks and terminals become inoperative or decrease the capacity available to us, we may not be able to sell our product, or we may be required to hold our product in inventory or supply products to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by rail or additional tanker trucks from the refinery, all of which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability. we have manufacturing facilities in foreign countries that support the lubricants and specialty products segment. if one of our facilities is damaged or disrupted, resulting in production being halted for an extended period, we may not be able to timely supply our customers. we take steps to mitigate this risk, including business continuity and contingency planning and procuring property and casualty insurance (including business interruption insurance). nevertheless, the loss of sales in any one region over an extended period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. in addition, our business is subject to increasingly stringent data protection requirements. information technology system failures, network disruptions (whether intentional by a third party or due to natural disaster), breaches of network or data security, or disruption or failure of the network system used to monitor and control pipeline operations could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to laws, directives, and regulations relating to the collection, use, retention, disclosure, security and transfer of personal data relating to our customers and employees. these laws, directives and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. for example, the general data protection regulation, which went into effect in the european union on may 25, 2018, applies to all of our activities conducted in the european union and may also apply to related products and services that we offer to customers in the european union. noncompliance with these legal obligations relating to privacy and data protection could result in penalties, legal proceedings by governmental entities or others, and significant legal and financial exposure and could affect our ability to retain and attract customers. 28 table of content we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. this may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. the domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions are disrupted and volatile from time to time due to a variety of factors, including low consumer confidence, high unemployment, geoeconomic and geopolitical issues, weak economic conditions and uncertainty in the financial services sector. in addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility, which negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. recently, the equity and debt markets for many energy industry companies have been adversely affected by low oil prices. as a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from these markets diminished significantly. in particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease to provide, funding to borrowers. in addition, lending counterparties under any existing revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations, or we may experience a decrease in our capacity to issue debt or obtain commercial credit or a deterioration in our credit profile, including a rating agency lowering or withdrawing of our credit ratings if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be required to sell assets. moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or construction projects, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, comply with regulatory requirements, or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. failure to comply with regulatory requirements in a timely manner or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements could subject us to regulatory action. we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the crude supply and distribution network that serve our refineries, and we own a significant equity interest in hep. at december 31, 2018 , we owned a 57% limited partner interest and a non-economic general partner interest in hep. hep operates a system of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines; distribution terminals and refinery tankage in idaho, kansas, nevada, new mexico, oklahoma, texas, utah, washington and wyoming and refinery units in kansas and utah. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, leasing certain pipeline capacity to delek, charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross and tulsa refineries under several long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements expiring in 2020 through 2036, serves the el dorado refinery under long-term tolling agreements expiring in 2030 and serves the woods cross refinery under long-term tolling agreements expiring in 2031. furthermore, our financial statements include the consolidated results of hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on its significant customers, including us; competition from other pipelines; environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations; operational hazards and risks; pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge; limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep's debt covenants; and other financial, operational and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect hep's as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as hep is a consolidated vie. additionally, these risks could affect hep's ability to continue operations which could affect their ability to serve our supply and distribution network needs. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. for risks related to hep's business, see item 1a of hep's annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2018 . we are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our key customers and vendors. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers. 29 table of content if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. in addition, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide us with products or services could result in higher costs or interfere with our ability to successfully conduct our business. any substantial increase in the nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers or vendors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. terrorist attacks (including cyber-attacks), and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks and the threat of future terrorist attacks (including cyber-attacks) on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are unknown. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. uncertainty surrounding continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror, may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products. in addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. increases in required fuel economy and regulation of co 2 emissions from motor vehicles may reduce demand for transportation fuels. in 2010, the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) finalized new standards, raising the required corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) of the nation's passenger fleet by 40% to approximately 35 miles per gallon ( m.p.g. ) by 2016 and imposing the first-ever federal ghg emissions standards on cars and light trucks. in september 2011, the epa and the department of transportation finalized first-time standards for fuel economy of medium and heavy duty trucks. on august 28, 2012, the epa and nhtsa adopted standards through model year 2025 in two phases. the first phase establishes final standards for 2017-2021 model year vehicles that are projected to require 40.3 - 41.0 m.p.g. in model year 2021 on an average industry fleet-wide basis. the second phase of the cafe program represents non-final augural standards for 2022-2025 model year vehicles that are projected to require 48.7 - 49.7 m.p.g. in model year 2025, on an average industry fleet-wide basis. in 2017, the epa and nhtsa announced that the agencies were reconsidering the second phase cafe standards, which could result in maintaining the first phase standards for the 2022-2025 model years. on august 2, 2018, the epa and nhtsa proposed the safer affordable fuel economy rule which amended the existing cafe standards and proposed new standards covering model years through 2026. a final rule is expected in 2019. any increases in fuel economy standards, along with mandated increases in use of renewable fuels discussed above, could result in decreasing demand for petroleum fuels. decreasing demand for petroleum fuels could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operation. to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future major capital investment, various environmental compliance related projects, regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may not produce a return on investment. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. 30 table of content our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. one or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. we have taken significant measures to expand and upgrade units in our refineries by installing new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve refinery capacity. the installation and redesign of key equipment at our refineries involves significant uncertainties, including the following: our upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels; operating costs of the upgraded equipment may be higher than expected; the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design and/or specifications and redesign, modification or replacement of the equipment may be required to correct equipment that does not perform as expected, which could require facility shutdowns until the equipment has been redesigned or modified. any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment, or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we expect to execute turnarounds at our refineries, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties. these risks include delays and incurrence of additional and unforeseen costs. the turnarounds allow us to perform maintenance, upgrades, overhaul and repair of process equipment and materials, during which time all or a portion of the refinery will be under scheduled downtime. we may be unable to pay future dividends. we will only be able to pay dividends from our available cash on hand, cash from operations or borrowings under our credit agreement. the declaration of future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, and restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. we cannot assure you that any dividends will be paid or the frequency or amounts of such payments. potential product, service or other related liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business, reputation and results of operations. a significant portion of our operating responsibility on refined product pipelines is to insure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. if our quality control measures were to fail, we may have contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks or off-specification product could be sent to public gasoline stations. the development, manufacture and sale of specialty lubricant products also involves an inherent risk of exposure to potential product liability claims. these types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers. our lubricants and specialty products segment could also be subject to false advertising claims, product recalls, workplace exposure, product seizures and related adverse publicity. any of these incidents is a significant commercial risk. substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. there can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation or results of operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers. although we maintain product and other general liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the types or levels of coverage maintained are adequate to cover these potential risks, or that we will be able to continue to maintain existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. in addition, if any party with whom we have a sponsorship relationship were to generate adverse publicity, our company could be harmed. a negative public perception of our company, whether justified or not, could impair our reputation, expose us to litigation, damage our brand equity and have a material adverse effect on our business. we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, which may limit our ability to compete in our markets. we have trademarks and patents issued, applied for, or acquired in the united states and in various foreign countries, some of which may prove to be material to our business. despite our efforts to protect such intellectual property, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our technologies, products, and processes. in addition, the laws and/or judicial systems of foreign countries in which we design, manufacture, market and sell our products may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. these potential risks to our intellectual property could subject us to increased competition and negatively impact our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. 31 table of content our hedging transactions may limit our gains and expose us to other risks. we periodically enter into derivative transactions as it relates to inventory levels and/or future production to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products and other feedstocks. these transactions limit our potential gains if commodity prices move above or below the certain price levels established by our hedging instruments. we hedge price risk on inventories above our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. consequently, our hedging results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. these transactions may also expose us to risks of financial losses; for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreements fails to perform its obligations under the agreements. changes in our credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. an unfavorable credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require credit enhancement. due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms or credit enhancement requirements on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. this in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at desired capacity. a failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. our credit facility contains certain covenants and restrictions that may constrain our business and financing activities. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. for example, our revolving credit facility imposes usual and customary requirements for this type of credit facility, including: (i) limitations on liens and indebtedness; (ii) a prohibition on changes in control and (iii) restrictions on engaging in mergers and consolidations. if we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in the credit facility or another event of default occurs under the credit facility, the maturity of the loan could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our future working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. if we desire to undertake a transaction that is prohibited by the covenants in our credit facility, we will need to obtain consent under our credit facility. such refinancing may not be possible or may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. our business may suffer due to a departure of any of our key senior executives or other key employees. furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance, non-compete agreements, or employment agreements with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. a shortage of trained workers due to retirements or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 32% of our employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates. we may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. a failure to do so may increase our costs. in addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. 32 table of content the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and the value of a stockholder's investment could be impacted. the market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; general economic, industry and stock market conditions; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; future sales of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; sales of common stock by us, our senior officers or our affiliates; and/or the other factors described in these risk factors. in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. this volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income (loss) attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders plus (i) interest expense, net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under gaap; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. 50 table of content set forth below is our calculation of ebitda. years ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in thousands) net income (loss) attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders $ 1,097,960 $ 805,395 $ (260,453 ) add (subtract) income tax provision 347,243 (12,379 ) 19,411 add interest expense 131,363 117,597 72,192 subtract interest income (16,892 ) (3,736 ) (2,491 ) add depreciation and amortization 437,324 409,937 363,027 ebitda $ 1,996,998 $ 1,316,814 $ 191,686 reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. refinery gross margin per produced barrel sold is total refining segment revenues less total refining segment cost of products sold, exclusive of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustments, divided by sales volumes of produced refined products sold. net operating margin per barrel sold is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold. these two margins do not include the non-cash effects of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustments, goodwill and asset impairment charges or depreciation and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for refinery net operating and gross margin and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. reconciliation of average refining segment net operating margin per produced barrel sold to refinery gross margin to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated net operating margin per produced barrel sold $ 11.32 $ 5.45 $ 2.51 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold 6.39 6.11 5.65 refinery gross margin per produced barrel sold 17.71 11.56 8.16 times produced barrels sold (bpd) 452,630 452,270 440,640 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refining segment gross margin 2,925,868 1,908,308 1,315,998 add (subtract) rounding (154 ) 335 1,112 total refining segment gross margin 2,925,714 1,908,643 1,317,110 add refining segment cost of products sold 13,250,849 11,009,419 9,003,605 refining segment sales and other revenues 16,176,563 12,918,062 10,320,715 add lubricants and specialty products segment sales and other revenues 1,812,703 1,594,036 464,359 add hep segment sales and other revenues 506,220 454,362 402,043 subtract corporate, other and eliminations (780,820 ) (715,161 ) (651,417 ) sales and other revenues $ 17,714,666 $ 14,251,299 $ 10,535,700 51 table of content reconciliation of average refining segment operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2018 2017 2016 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average refining operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 6.39 $ 6.11 $ 5.65 times produced barrels sold (bpd) 452,630 452,270 440,640 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refinery operating expenses 1,055,692 1,008,630 911,199 add (subtract) rounding (483 ) 229 630 total refining segment operating expenses 1,055,209 1,008,859 911,829 add lubricants and specialty products segment operating expenses 167,820 222,461 13,867 add hep segment operating expenses 146,430 137,856 124,192 subtract corporate, other and eliminations (83,621 ) (72,507 ) (28,736 ) operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,285,838 $ 1,296,669 $ 1,021,152 52 table of contentrisk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the headings provided in this item 1a. are for convenience and reference purposes only and shall not affect or limit the extent or interpretation of the risk factors. 21 table of content the prices of crude oil and refined and finished lubricant products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors, regional and grade differentials and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined and finished lubricant products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, product and crude pipeline capacities, crude oil differentials (including regional and grade differentials), changes in transportation costs, accidents or interruptions in transportation, competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve, global market conditions, actions by foreign nations and factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined and finished lubricant products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition, which results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates based upon worldwide and local market conditions. our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. for example, the reversal of certain existing pipelines or the construction of certain new pipelines transporting additional crude oil or refined products to markets that serve competing refineries could affect the market dynamic that has allowed us to take advantage of favorable pricing. a deterioration of crack spreads or price differentials between domestic and foreign crude oils could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year and can vary year to year in the event of unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and/or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which we sell our petroleum products. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results, therefore, depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flow. also, our crude oil and refined products inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market under the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) inventory valuation methodology. if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our lifo cost, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of products sold even when there is no underlying economic impact at that point in time. continued volatility in crude oil and refined products prices could result in lower of cost or market inventory charges in the future, or in reversals reducing cost of products sold in subsequent periods should prices recover. for example, we recorded a non-cash decrease to cost of products sold in the amount of $119.8 million and an increase of $136.3 million for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. there are various risks associated with greenhouse gases and climate change that could result in increased operating costs and litigation and reduced demand for the refined products we produce and investment in our industry. climate change continues to attract considerable attention in the united states, canada, europe, and other regions. numerous proposals have been made and could continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government to monitor and limit existing emissions of ghgs as well as to restrict or eliminate such future emissions. as a result, our operations are subject to a series of regulatory, political, litigation, and financial risks associated with the refining of petroleum products and emission of ghgs. 22 table of content the epa has determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gas emissions, or ghgs, present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. the u.s. supreme court has also found that ghg emissions constitute a pollutant under the caa. accordingly, the epa has adopted rules that, among other things, establish construction and operating permit reviews for ghg emissions from certain large stationary sources, require the monitoring and annual reporting of ghg emissions from certain petroleum and natural gas sources in the united states or to control or reduce emissions of ghgs, including methane, from such sources. in addition, the epa, together with the dot, implement ghg emission and corporate average fuel economy standards for vehicles manufactured in the united states. additionally, various states and groups of states have adopted or are considering adopting legislation, regulations or other regulatory initiatives that are focused on such areas as ghg cap and trade programs, carbon taxes, reporting and tracking programs, and restriction of emissions. similar such regulations exist at the provincial and federal levels in canada, including a nation-wide greenhouse gas pricing initiative and regulations related to the control of ghgs from automobiles and light duty trucks and either cap and trade programs or carbon taxes in the provinces of quebec, ontario, and alberta. the netherlands also participates in certain european legal initiatives, including ghg cap and trade programs, and recently promulgated the climate act with the goal of significantly reducing ghg emissions by 49% (compared to 1990) by 2030 and by at least 95% by 2050. it is unclear what further measures the dutch government will take to reduce ghg emissions pursuant to this law. at the international level, there is a non-binding agreement, the united nations-sponsored paris agreement, for nations to limit their ghg emissions through individually-determined reduction goals every five years after 2020, although the united states has announced its withdrawal from such agreement, effective november 4, 2020. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the refined products that we produce. additionally, political, litigation and financial risks may result in curtailed refinery activity, incurred liability, or other adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. there are also increasing risks of litigation related to climate change effects. governments and third-parties have brought suit against some fossil fuel companies alleging, among other things, that such companies created public nuisances by producing fuels that contributed to climate change, such as rising sea levels, and therefore are responsible for roadway and infrastructure damages as a result, or alleging that the companies have been aware of the adverse effects of climate change for some time but defrauded their investors by failing to adequately disclose those impacts. while we are not party to such suits at this time, we may become subject to such litigation in the future. such cases could also adversely impact public perception and the demand for fossil fuels and petroleum products, which could subsequently result in decreased demand for our services and refined products and a drop in our share price. our share price could be adversely impacted if existing shareholders, including institutional investors, elect in the future to shift some or all of their investments into non-energy related sectors based on social and environmental considerations. additionally, in recent years institutional lenders have become more attentive to sustainable lending practices and have been lobbied intensively, and often publicly, by environmental activists, proponents of the international paris agreement, and foreign citizenry concerned about climate change not to provide funding for fossil fuel energy companies. limitation of investments in and financings for fossil fuel energy companies could result in the restriction, delay or cancellation of drilling programs or development or production activities, could result in a reduction of available capital funding for potential development projects and could also adversely affect demand for our services and refined products, all of which could impact our future financial results. the availability and cost of renewable identification numbers and other required credits could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. pursuant to the 2007 energy independence and security act, the epa promulgated the rfs regulations reflecting the increased volume of renewable fuels mandated to be blended into the nation's fuel supply. the regulations, in part, require refiners to add annually increasing amounts of renewable fuels to their petroleum products or purchase credits, known as rins, in lieu of such blending. we currently purchase rins for some fuel categories on the open market in order to comply with the quantity of renewable fuels we are required to blend under the rfs regulations. since the epa first began mandating biofuels in excess of the blend wall (the 10% ethanol limit prescribed by most automobile warranties), the price of rins has been extremely volatile. while we cannot predict the future prices of rins, the costs to obtain the necessary number of rins could be material. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance with the rfs regulations on to our customers, if sufficient rins are unavailable for purchase, if we have to pay a significantly higher price for rins or if we are otherwise unable to meet the rfs mandates, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 23 table of content in the past, we have received small refinery exemptions under the rfs program for certain of our refineries. however, there is no assurance that such an exemption will be obtained for any of our refineries in future years. for example, the epa has recently indicated it plans to more closely align the agency's criteria for granting small refinery exemptions with the recommendation of the department of energy, which could result in fewer such exemptions being granted. the failure to obtain such exemptions for certain of our refineries could result in the need to purchase more rins than we currently have estimated and accrued for in our consolidated financial statements. epa recently promulgated new rfs regulations that could require the agency to increase the volume of renewable fuel or rins that refiners are required to purchase if the agency anticipates it will grant small refinery exemptions. this also could increase the number of rins we need to purchase. additionally, a recent decision by the u.s. court of appeals for the 10th circuit vacated two small refinery exemption decisions for the 2016 compliance year and remanded the case to the epa for further proceedings. it is not clear at this time what steps the epa will take with respect to our 2016 small refinery exemptions, or how the case will impact future small refinery exemptions. in addition, the rfs regulations are highly complex and evolving, requiring us to periodically update our compliance systems. the rfs regulations require the epa to determine and publish the applicable annual volume and percentage standards for each compliance year by november 30 for the forthcoming year, and such blending percentages could be higher or lower than amounts estimated and accrued for in our consolidated financial statements. the future cost of rins is difficult to estimate until such time as the epa finalizes the applicable standards for the forthcoming compliance year. moreover, in addition to increased price volatility in the rins market, there have been multiple instances of rins fraud occurring in the marketplace over the past several years. the epa has initiated several enforcement actions against refiners who purchase fraudulent rins, resulting in substantial costs to the refiner. we cannot predict with certainty our exposure to increased rins costs in the future, nor can we predict the extent by which costs associated with rfs regulations will impact our future results of operations. to successfully operate our facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our facilities consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. one or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. we have taken significant measures to expand and upgrade units in our facilities by installing new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve refinery capacity. the installation and redesign of key equipment at our facilities involves significant uncertainties, including the following: our upgraded equipment may not perform at expected levels; operating costs of the upgraded equipment may be higher than expected; the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design and/or specifications and redesign, modification or replacement of the equipment may be required to correct equipment that does not perform as expected, which could require facility shutdowns until the equipment has been redesigned or modified. any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment, or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. additionally, our growth strategy includes projects that permit access to new and/or more profitable markets. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control, including: third party challenges to, denials, or delays with respect to the issuance of requisite regulatory approvals and/or obtaining or renewing permits, licenses, registrations and other authorizations; societal and political pressures and other forms of opposition; compliance with or liability under environmental regulations; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, terrorists or cyberattacks, domestic vandalism or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires, spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project's debt or equity financing costs; and/or nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project. 24 table of content if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. in addition, we expect to execute turnarounds at our refineries, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties. these risks include delays and incurrence of additional and unforeseen costs. the turnarounds allow us to perform maintenance, upgrades, overhaul and repair of process equipment and materials, during which time all or a portion of the refinery will be under scheduled downtime. our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply, global market conditions, actions by foreign nations and customer demand. cyberattacks or security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business is dependent upon information systems and other digital technologies for controlling our plants and pipelines, processing transactions and summarizing and reporting results of operations. the secure processing, maintenance and transmission of information is critical to our operations. we monitor our information systems on a 24/7 basis in an effort to detect cyberattacks or security breaches. preventative and detective measures we utilize include independent cybersecurity audits and penetration tests. we implemented these efforts along with other risk mitigation procedures to detect and address unauthorized and damaging activity on our network, stay abreast of the increasing threat landscape and improve our security posture. information technology system failures, communications network disruptions (whether intentional by a third party or due to natural disaster), and security breaches could still impact equipment and software used to control plants and pipelines, resulting in improper operation of our assets, potentially including delays in the delivery or availability of our customers' products, contamination or degradation of the products we transport, store or distribute, or releases of hydrocarbon products and other damage to our facilities for which we could be held liable. furthermore, we collect and store sensitive data in the ordinary course of our business, including personally identifiable information of our employees as well as our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers, investors and other stakeholders. despite our security measures, our information systems may become the target of cyberattacks or security breaches (including employee error, malfeasance or other breaches), which could result in the theft or loss of the stored information, misappropriation of assets, disruption of transactions and reporting functions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. even with insurance coverage, a claim could be denied or coverage delayed. a cyber-attack or security breach could result in liability under data privacy laws, regulatory penalties, damage to our reputation or a loss of consumer confidence in our products and services, or additional costs for remediation and modification or enhancement of our information systems to prevent future occurrences, all of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry. we are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. 25 table of content in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. the markets in which we compete may be impacted by competitors' plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability. also, the potential operation of new or expanded refined product transportation pipelines, or the conversion of existing pipelines into refined product transportation pipelines, could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets and negatively affect our profitability. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. the more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. there are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the united states. the market for our lubricants and specialty products segment is highly competitive and requires us to continuously develop and introduce new products and product enhancements. our ability to grow our lubricants and specialty products segment depends, in part, on our ability to continuously develop, manufacture and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis, in response to customers' demands for higher performance process lubricants, coatings, greases and other product offerings. our competitors may develop new products or enhancements to their products that offer performance, features and lower prices that may render our products less competitive or obsolete, and, as a consequence, we may lose business and/or significant market share. our efforts to respond to changes in consumer demand in a timely and cost-efficient manner to drive growth could be adversely affected by unfavorable margins or difficulties or delays in product development and service innovation, including the inability to identify viable new products, successfully complete research and development, obtain regulatory approvals, obtain intellectual property protection or gain market acceptance of new products or service techniques. the development and commercialization of new products require significant expenditures over an extended period of time, and some products that we seek to develop may never become profitable, and we could be required to write-off our investments related to a new product that does not reach commercial viability. our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks, any of which could adversely affect us. an additional component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets or businesses for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations and inefficiencies that may result therefrom; difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; difficulties or delays in achieving anticipated operational improvements or benefits or inaccurate assumptions about future synergies or revenues; incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. any acquisitions that we do consummate may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. 26 table of content we incur significant costs, and expect to incur additional costs in the future, to comply with existing, new and changing environmental, energy, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. operations of our facilities and pipelines are subject to international, foreign, federal, state, provincial and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use, transportation and distribution of petroleum and hazardous substances by pipeline, truck, rail, ship and barge, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. in addition, we have manufacturing and distribution operations in foreign countries that are subject to the environmental laws and regulations of such foreign countries. permits or other authorizations are required under these laws for the operation of our facilities, pipelines and related operations, and these permits and authorizations are subject to revocation, modification and renewal or may require operational changes, which may involve significant costs. furthermore, a violation of permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, refinery shutdowns, and reputational harm. in addition, major modifications of our operations due to changes in the law could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. for example, in october 2015, the epa lowered the naaqs for ozone from 75 to 70 parts per billion for both the 8-hour primary and secondary standards and, in 2018, published attainment/nonattainment designations. state implementation of the revised naaqs could result in stricter permitting requirements, delay or prohibit our ability to obtain such permits, and result in increased expenditures for pollution control equipment, the costs of which could be significant. also, in february 2016, a new epa rule became effective that amends three refinery standards already in effect, imposing additional or, in some cases, new emission control requirements on subject refineries. the final rule requires, among other things, benzene monitoring at the refinery fence line and submittal of fence line monitoring data to the epa on a quarterly basis; upgraded storage tank controls requirements, including new applicability thresholds; enhanced performance requirements for flares, continuous monitoring of flares and pressure release devices and analysis and remedy of flare release events; and compliance with emissions standards for delayed coking units. in november 2018, the epa published amendments to the new rules to clarify and correct certain requirements. these new rules, as well as subsequent rulemaking under the caa or similar laws, or new agency interpretations of existing laws and regulations, may necessitate additional expenditures in future years and result in increased costs on our operations. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of our operations and capital requirements . as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include, but are not limited to, soil, groundwater and waterway contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we processed, manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed. we are and have been the subject of various local, state, provincial, federal, foreign, international and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various foreign and domestic laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations but cannot guarantee that these efforts will always be successful. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. failure to appropriately manage occupational health and safety risks associated with our business could also adversely impact our employees, communities, stakeholders, reputation and results of operations. the costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies or courts could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. 27 table of content we are also subject to existing, and may in the future be subject to new or changing, domestic and foreign energy policy legislation. for example, in the united states, the energy independence and security act mandates annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol and increasing energy efficiency goals, among other steps. dutch law also focuses on increasing the use of renewal fuels, and in canada, fuel content legislation exists at the federal and provincial level. these statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. in the near term, the new renewable fuel standard presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining industries and may require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased ethanol use. other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties, and item 3, legal proceedings. our wholesale purchases and sales of crude oil and certain petroleum products expose us to potential regulatory risks. the federal trade commission ( ftc ) holds statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the wholesale markets for crude oil, gasoline, and petroleum distillates, and it has imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. with regard to our wholesale purchases and sales of such commodities, we are required to observe the market related regulations enforced by the ftc, which holds substantial enforcement authority. our purchases and sales may also be subject to certain reporting and other requirements. additionally, to the extent that we enter into transportation contracts with common carrier pipelines that are subject to ferc regulation, we are subject to ferc requirements related to the use of such capacity. any failure on our part to comply with the regulations and policies of the ftc or the ferc could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties. failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions and other disruptive risks for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to catastrophic losses, operational hazards, unforeseen interruptions and other disruptive risks such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, maritime disasters (including those involving marine vessels/terminals), fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, terror or cyberattacks, domestic vandalism, power failures, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events could result in an injury, loss of life, property damage or destruction, as well as a curtailment or an interruption in our operations and may affect our ability to meet marketing commitments. we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at commercially reasonable rates and exclusions from coverage may limit our ability to recover the amount of the full loss in all situations. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. there can be no assurance that insurance will cover all or any damages and losses resulting from these types of hazards. we are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business and therefore, we self-insure certain risks. if any of our facilities were to experience an interruption in operations, our earnings could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. the energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. in recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. as a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. in addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. further, our underwriters could have credit issues that affect their ability to pay claims. if a significant accident or event occurs that is self-insured or not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 table of content an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. an impairment of our long-lived assets or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. we continually monitor our business, the business environment and the performance of our operations to determine if an event has occurred that indicates that a long-lived asset or goodwill may be impaired. if a triggering event occurs, which is a determination that involves judgment, we may be required to utilize cash flow projections to assess our ability to recover the carrying value based on the ability to generate future cash flows. we may also conduct impairment testing based on both the guideline public company and guideline transaction methods. our long-lived assets and goodwill impairment analyses are sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, estimates of future crack spreads, forecasted production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures. if the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible a material impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. we cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any additional impairments of long-lived assets or goodwill in the future. as market prices for refined products and market prices for crude oil continue to fluctuate, we will need to continue to evaluate the carrying value of our refinery reporting units. during the year ended december 31, 2016, we recorded goodwill and long-lived asset impairment charges on the carrying value of our cheyenne refinery. a reasonable expectation exists that future deterioration in gross margins could result in an impairment of goodwill and the long-lived assets of the el dorado reporting unit at some point in the future. any additional impairment charges that we may take in the future could be material to our results of operations and financial condition. a disruption to or proration of the refined product distribution systems or manufacturing facilities we utilize could negatively impact our profitability. we utilize various common carrier or other third party pipeline systems to deliver our products to market. the key systems utilized by the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross, and tulsa refineries are rocky mountain, nustar energy and magellan, sfpp and plains, chevron and unev, and magellan, respectively. the five u.s. refineries also utilize systems owned by hep. if these key pipelines or their associated tanks and terminals become inoperative or decrease the capacity available to us, we may not be able to sell our product, or we may be required to hold our product in inventory or supply products to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by rail or additional tanker trucks from the refinery, all of which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability. we have manufacturing facilities in foreign countries that support the lubricants and specialty products segment. if one of our facilities is damaged or disrupted, resulting in production being halted for an extended period, we may not be able to timely supply our customers. we take steps to mitigate this risk, including business continuity and contingency planning and procuring property (including business interruption) and casualty insurance (including business interruption insurance). nevertheless, the loss of sales in any one region over an extended period of time could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. a material decrease in the supply of crude oil or other raw materials available to our refineries and other facilities could significantly reduce our production levels and negatively affect our operations. to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines, catastrophic events or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. in addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries or the potential operation of a new, converted or expanded crude oil pipeline that transports crude oil to other markets could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. if we are unable to secure additional crude oil supplies of sufficient quality or crude pipeline expansion to our refineries, we will be unable to take full advantage of current and future expansion of our refineries' production capacities. 29 table of content for certain raw materials and utilities used by our refineries and other facilities, there are a limited number of suppliers and, in some cases, we source from a single supplier and/or suppliers in economies that have experienced instability or the supplies are specific to the particular geographic region in which a facility is located. any significant disruption in supply could affect our ability to obtain raw materials, or increase the cost of such raw materials, which could significantly reduce our production levels or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, certain raw materials that we use are subject to various regulatory laws, and a change in the ability to legally use such raw materials may impact our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. it is also common in the refining industry for a facility to have a sole, dedicated source for its utilities, such as steam, electricity, water and gas. having a sole or limited number of suppliers may limit our negotiating power, particularly in the case of rising raw material costs. any new supply agreements we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply agreements. additionally, there is growing concern over the reliability of water sources. the decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water as a result of population growth, drought or regulation could negatively impact our operations. if our raw material, utility or water supplies were disrupted, our businesses may incur increased costs to procure alternative supplies or incur excessive downtime, which would have a direct negative impact on our operations. we may be subject to information technology system failures, communications network disruptions and data breaches. we depend on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of hardware and software systems and infrastructure, including our operating, communications and financial reporting systems. these systems are critical in meeting customer expectations, effectively tracking, maintaining and operating our equipment, directing and compensating our employees, and interfacing with our financial reporting system. we have implemented safeguards and other preventative measures to protect our systems and data, including sophisticated network security and internal control measures; however, our information technology systems and communications network, and those of our information technology and communication service providers, remain vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, internet failures, computer malware, cyberattacks, data breaches and other events unforeseen or generally beyond our control. our business is subject to complex and evolving u.s. and foreign laws, regulations and security standards regarding privacy, cybersecurity and data protection ( data protection laws ). many of these laws are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, increased cost of operations, or otherwise harm our business. the constantly evolving regulatory and legislative environment surrounding data privacy and protection poses increasingly complex compliance challenges, and complying with such data protection laws could increase the costs and complexity of compliance. while we do not collect significant amounts of personal information from consumers, we do have personal information from our employees, job applicants and some business partners, such as contractors and distributors. any failure, whether real or perceived, by us to comply with applicable data protection laws could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant fines, penalties, judgments, and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase the costs and complexity of compliance, and adversely affect our business. for example, the general data protection regulation (gdpr), which went into effect in the european union on may 25, 2018, applies to all of our activities conducted in the european union and may also apply to related products and services that we may offer from time to time to customers in the european union. the gdpr requires companies to satisfy strict requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or require deletion of data about themselves. failure to comply with gdpr requirements could result in substantial penalties. while we have invested time and resources in preparing for and complying with the gdpr, the gdpr and other similar privacy/security laws and regulations (including potential new data privacy laws and regulations in the u.s. or other foreign countries in which we operate), as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may increase our operating costs. 30 table of content we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. this may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. the domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions are disrupted and volatile from time to time due to a variety of factors, including low consumer confidence, high unemployment, geoeconomic and geopolitical issues, weak economic conditions and uncertainty in the financial services sector. in addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility, which negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. recently, the equity and debt markets for many energy industry companies have been adversely affected by low oil prices. as a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from these markets diminished significantly. in particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease to provide, funding to borrowers. in addition, lending counterparties under any existing revolving credit facility and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations, or we may experience a decrease in our capacity to issue debt or obtain commercial credit or a deterioration in our credit profile, including a rating agency lowering or withdrawing of our credit ratings if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be required to sell assets. moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or construction projects, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, comply with regulatory requirements, or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. failure to comply with regulatory requirements in a timely manner or meet our short-term or long-term working capital requirements could subject us to regulatory action. our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including currency fluctuations we derive a portion of our revenue and earnings from international operations. our acquisitions of petro-canada lubricants and sonneborn have expanded our operations and sales in foreign countries and correspondingly may increase our exposure to foreign exchange risks. any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which we do business against the u.s. dollar could affect our revenue, competitiveness and cost of doing business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, compliance with applicable u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, such as import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, environmental laws, labor laws and anti-competition regulations, increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. although we have implemented policies and procedures to comply with these laws and regulations, a violation by any of our employees, contractors, distributors or agents could nevertheless occur. in some cases, compliance with the laws and regulations of one country could violate the laws and regulations of another country. violations of these laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our company's brand, international growth efforts and business. in addition, global market risks, actions by foreign nations and other international conditions, particularly in a time of increasing economic and global instability, may have a material adverse effect on our results and operations. the consequences of such uncertainty cannot be anticipated or quantified. we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the crude supply and distribution network that serve our refineries, and we own a significant equity interest in hep. at december 31, 2019, we owned a 57% limited partner interest and a non-economic general partner interest in hep. hep operates a system of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines, distribution terminals and refinery tankage in idaho, kansas, nevada, new mexico, oklahoma, texas, utah, washington and wyoming and refinery units in kansas and utah. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, leasing certain pipeline capacity to third parties, charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves the cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross and tulsa refineries under several long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements expiring in 2021 through 2036, serves the el dorado refinery under long-term tolling agreements expiring in 2030 and serves the woods cross refinery under long-term tolling agreements expiring in 2031. furthermore, our financial statements include the consolidated results of hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: 31 table of content its reliance on its significant customers, including us; competition from other pipelines; environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations; operational hazards and risks; pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge; limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep's debt covenants; and other financial, operational and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect hep's as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as hep is a consolidated vie. additionally, these risks could affect hep's ability to continue operations which could affect their ability to serve our supply and distribution network needs. while we own a 57% limited partner interest and a non-economic general partner interest in hep, hep is a publicly-traded master limited partnership and is a legally distinct entity. conflicts of interest may arise between us and hep, which may subject us to claims from hep's public unitholders. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. for risks related to hep's business, see item 1a of hep's annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2019. we are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our key customers and vendors. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers. if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. in addition, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide us with products or services could result in higher costs or interfere with our ability to successfully conduct our business. any substantial increase in the nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers or vendors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks and the threat of future terrorist attacks on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are unknown. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. uncertainty surrounding continued global hostilities or other sustained military campaigns, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror, may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products. in addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks and domestic vandalism could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism, vandalism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. 32 table of content increases in required fuel economy and regulation of co 2 emissions from motor vehicles may reduce demand for transportation fuels. the epa and the national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) are required to promulgate requirements regarding the corporate average fuel economy ( cafe ) of the nation's passenger fleet. on august 28, 2012, the epa and nhtsa adopted standards through model year 2025 in two phases. the first phase established final standards for 2017-2021 model year vehicles that are projected to require 40.3 - 41.0 m.p.g. in model year 2021 on an average industry fleet-wide basis. the second phase of the cafe program represents non-final augural standards for 2022-2025 model year vehicles that are projected to require 48.7 - 49.7 m.p.g. in model year 2025 on an average industry fleet-wide basis. however, following the change in presidential administrations, there have been attempts to modify these standards. in august 2018, the epa and nhtsa proposed the safer affordable fuel economy rule which amended the existing cafe standards and proposed new standards covering model years through 2026. while the epa issued a rule in september 2019 that seeks to preempt the ability of states to set stricter standards than those set by the federal government, no final rule has yet been issued regarding amendments to the current cafe standards. all of these rulemakings will likely be subject to challenge by a variety of parties seeking stricter ghg and cafe standards. any increases in fuel economy standards, along with mandated increases in use of renewable fuels discussed above, could result in decreasing demand for petroleum fuels. decreasing demand for petroleum fuels could have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operation. we may be unable to pay future dividends. we will only be able to pay dividends from our available cash on hand, cash from operations or borrowings under our credit agreement. the declaration of future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, and restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. we cannot assure you that any dividends will be paid or the frequency or amounts of such payments. potential product, service or other related liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business, reputation and results of operations. a significant portion of our operating responsibility on refined product pipelines is to insure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. if our quality control measures were to fail, we may have contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks or off-specification product could be sent to public gasoline stations. the development, manufacture and sale of specialty lubricant products also involves an inherent risk of exposure to potential product liability claims. these types of incidents could result in product liability claims from our customers. our lubricants and specialty products segment could also be subject to false advertising claims, product recalls, workplace exposure, product seizures and related adverse publicity. any of these incidents is a significant commercial risk. substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. there can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation or results of operations or our ability to maintain existing customers or retain new customers. although we maintain product and other general liability insurance, there can be no assurance that the types or levels of coverage maintained are adequate to cover these potential risks, or that we will be able to continue to maintain existing insurance or obtain comparable insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. we sell many of our lubricants and specialty products through distributors, which presents risks that could adversely affect our operating results. a large portion of our lubricants and specialty product sales, both in domestic and international markets, occur through distributors. as a result, we are dependent on these distributors to promote and create demand for our products. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining and strengthening our relationships with our distributors or establishing relationships with new distributors who have the ability to market, sell and support our products effectively. we may rely on one or more key distributors for a product or a region, and the loss of these distributors could reduce our revenue. the sales, business practices and reputation of our distributors may affect our business and our reputation. the consolidation of distributors, loss of a relationship with a distributor, significant disagreement with a distributor, or significant deterioration in the financial condition of a distributor could also have an adverse effect on our operating results and may also result in increased competition in the applicable jurisdiction. 33 table of content we may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, which may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise hurt our ability to compete in the market. we use intellectual property in the ordinary course of our business, including trademarks, trade secrets, copyrighted work and innovations, some of which is material to our business. we take measures to identify and protect our intellectual property through practices appropriate for securing and protecting exclusive rights in and to our intellectual property, including applying for registrations in the united states and in various foreign countries. despite our efforts to protect such intellectual property, it is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our trademarks (or other marks likely to cause confusion among our consumers), technologies, products and processes. in addition, the laws and/or judicial systems and enforcement mechanisms of foreign countries in which we create, market and sell our products may afford little or no effective protection of our intellectual property. we may also be subject to infringement complaints from others challenging our use of a technology. we cannot guarantee that our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use and appropriation, or our efforts to defend against third party claims of infringement would be successful. these potential risks to our intellectual property could subject us to increased competition and negatively impact our liquidity, financial position and results of operations. our hedging transactions may limit our gains and expose us to other risks. we periodically enter into derivative transactions as it relates to inventory levels and/or future production to manage the risks from changes in the prices of crude oil, refined products and other feedstocks. these transactions limit our potential gains if commodity prices move above or below the certain price levels established by our hedging instruments. we hedge price risk on inventories above our target levels to minimize the impact these price fluctuations have on our earnings and cash flows. consequently, our hedging results may fluctuate significantly from one reporting period to the next depending on commodity price fluctuations and our relative physical inventory positions. these transactions may also expose us to risks of financial losses; for example, if our production is less than we anticipated at the time we entered into a hedge agreement or if a counterparty to our hedge agreements fails to perform its obligations under the agreements. changes in our credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase sufficient quantities of crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. an unfavorable credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require credit enhancement. due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms or credit enhancement requirements on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. this in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at desired capacity. a failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. our credit facility contains certain covenants and restrictions that may constrain our business and financing activities. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. for example, our revolving credit facility imposes usual and customary requirements for this type of credit facility, including: (i) limitations on liens and indebtedness; (ii) a prohibition on changes in control and (iii) restrictions on engaging in mergers and consolidations. if we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in the credit facility or another event of default occurs under the credit facility, the maturity of the loan could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our future working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. if we desire to undertake a transaction that is prohibited by the covenants in our credit facility, we will need to obtain consent under our credit facility. such refinancing may not be possible or may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. 34 table of content our business may suffer due to a departure of any of our key senior executives or other key employees. furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key person life insurance, non-compete agreements, or employment agreements with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. a shortage of trained workers due to retirements or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations. a portion of our workforce is unionized, and any disruptions in our labor force or adverse employee relations could adversely affect our business. we depend on unionized labor for the operation of many of our facilities. as of december 31, 2019, approximately 35% of our employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates. in addition, employees who are not currently represented by labor unions may seek union representation in the future. we may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. if we are unable to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire, any work stoppages or other labor disturbances at these facilities could have an adverse effect on our business, impact our ability to make distributions to our unitholders and payments of our debt obligations, and increase our costs. in addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage or other adverse employee relations event at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, and the value of a stockholder's investment could be impacted. the market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; general economic, industry global and stock market conditions; the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts; future sales of our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; sales of common stock by us, our senior officers or our affiliates; and/or the other factors described in these risk factors. in recent years, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. this volatility has had a significant impact on the market price of securities issued by many companies, including companies in our industry. the price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon factors that have little or nothing to do with our company, and these fluctuations could materially reduce our stock price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. 52 table of content reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders plus (i) interest expense, net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under gaap; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda. years ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 (in thousands) net income attributable to hollyfrontier stockholders $ 772,388 $ 1,097,960 $ 805,395 add (subtract) income tax provision 299,152 347,243 (12,379 ) add interest expense 143,321 131,363 117,597 subtract interest income (22,139 ) (16,892 ) (3,736 ) add depreciation and amortization 509,925 437,324 409,937 ebitda $ 1,702,647 $ 1,996,998 $ 1,316,814 reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. refinery gross margin per produced barrel sold is total refining segment revenues less total refining segment cost of products sold, exclusive of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustments, divided by sales volumes of produced refined products sold. net operating margin per barrel sold is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold. these two margins do not include the non-cash effects of lower of cost or market inventory valuation adjustments, asset impairment charges or depreciation and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for refinery net operating and gross margin and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. 53 table of content reconciliation of average refining segment net operating margin per produced barrel sold to refinery gross margin to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated net operating margin per produced barrel sold $ 9.28 $ 11.32 $ 5.45 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold 6.68 6.39 6.11 refinery gross margin per produced barrel sold 15.96 17.71 11.56 times produced barrels sold (bpd) 449,190 452,630 452,270 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refining segment gross margin 2,616,711 2,925,868 1,908,308 add (subtract) rounding (429 ) (154 ) 335 total refining segment gross margin 2,616,282 2,925,714 1,908,643 add refining segment cost of products sold 12,980,506 13,250,849 11,009,419 refining segment sales and other revenues 15,596,788 16,176,563 12,918,062 add lubricants and specialty products segment sales and other revenues 2,092,528 1,812,703 1,594,036 add hep segment sales and other revenues 532,777 506,220 454,362 subtract corporate, other and eliminations (735,515 ) (780,820 ) (715,161 ) sales and other revenues $ 17,486,578 $ 17,714,666 $ 14,251,299 reconciliation of average refining segment operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2019 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) consolidated average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 6.68 $ 6.39 $ 6.11 times produced barrels sold (bpd) 449,190 452,630 452,270 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refinery operating expenses 1,095,215 1,055,692 1,008,630 add (subtract) rounding 273 (483 ) 229 total refining segment operating expenses 1,095,488 1,055,209 1,008,859 add lubricants and specialty products segment operating expenses 231,523 167,820 222,461 add hep segment operating expenses 161,996 146,430 137,856 subtract corporate, other and eliminations (94,955 ) (83,621 ) (72,507 ) operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 1,394,052 $ 1,285,838 $ 1,296,669 54 table of contentrisk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, product and crude pipeline capacities, changes in transportation costs, accidents or interruptions in transportation, competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve, and factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates based upon worldwide and local market conditions. our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices -27- table of contents for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results therefore depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flows. also, crude oil supply contracts are generally short-term contracts with market-responsive pricing provisions. we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. additionally, our growth strategy includes projects that permit access to new and/or more profitable markets such as our unev pipeline joint venture, a 12-inch refined products pipeline running from salt lake city, utah to las vegas, nevada that is currently under construction and in which our subsidiary owns a 75% interest. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control, including: denial or delay in issuing requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; compliance with or liability under environmental regulations; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; and/or nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or sub-contractors involved with a project. these projects may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. in addition, a component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations; difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; difficulties in achieving anticipated operational improvements; incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. -28- table of contents we may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may not produce a return on investment. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. one or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. we have taken significant measures to expand and upgrade units in our refineries by installing new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve refinery capacity. the installation and redesign of key equipment at our refineries involves significant uncertainties, including the following: our upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels; the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design and/or specifications and redesign or modification of the equipment may be required to correct equipment that does not perform as expected, which could require facility shutdowns until the equipment has been redesigned or modified. any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment, or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we expect to execute turnarounds at our refineries every three to five years, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties. these risks include delays and incurrence of additional and unforeseen costs. the turnarounds allow us to perform maintenance, upgrades, overhaul and repair of process equipment and materials, during which time all or a portion of the refinery will be under scheduled downtime. the woods cross refinery turnaround occurred in august/september, 2008, and the navajo refinery turnaround occurred in january/february, 2009. we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, energy, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal or may require operational changes, which may involve significant costs. furthermore, a violation of permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or refinery shutdowns. in addition, major modifications of our operations due to changes in the law could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. over the years, there have been and continue to be ongoing communications, including notices of violations, and discussions about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. -29- table of contents as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed. we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. we cannot predict what additional health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. however, new environmental laws and regulations, including new regulations relating to alternative energy sources and the risk of global climate change, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. there is growing consensus that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level in the united states with respect to emissions of greenhouse gases, or ghgs, (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides). also, new federal or state legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of ghgs in areas where we conduct business could adversely affect our operations and demand for our products. the costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. from time to time, new federal energy policy legislation is enacted by the u.s. congress. for example, in december 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act, which, among other provisions, mandates annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. these statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. in the near term, the new renewable fuel standard presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining industries and may require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased ethanol use. other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties, and item 3, legal proceedings. -30- table of contents the adoption of climate change legislation by congress could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce. on december 15, 2009, the epa officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other ghgs present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. these findings by the epa allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal caa. in late september 2009, the epa had proposed two sets of regulations in anticipation of finalizing its findings that would require a reduction in emissions of ghgs from motor vehicles and that could also lead to the imposition of ghg emission limitations in caa permits for certain stationary sources. in addition, on september 22, 2009, the epa issued a final rule requiring the reporting of ghg emissions from specified large ghg emission sources in the united states beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. the adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of ghgs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of ghgs associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the refined products that we produce. also, on june 26, 2009, the u.s. house of representatives approved adoption of the american clean energy and security act of 2009, ( acesa ), also known as the waxman-markey cap-and-trade legislation. the purpose of acesa is to control and reduce emissions of ghgs in the united states. acesa would establish an economy-wide cap on emissions of ghgs in the united states and would require an overall reduction in ghg emissions of 17% (from 2005 levels) by 2020, and by over 80% by 2050. under acesa, most sources of ghg emissions would be required to obtain ghg emission allowances corresponding to their annual emissions of ghgs. the number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet acesa overall emission reduction goals. as the number of ghg emission allowances permitted by acesa declines each year, the cost or value of allowances would be expected to escalate significantly. the net effect of acesa would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products, and gas. the u.s. senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing emissions of ghgs in the united states. if the senate adopts ghg legislation that is different from acesa, the senate legislation would need to be reconciled with acesa and both chambers would be required to approve identical legislation before it could become law. it is not possible at this time to predict whether climate change legislation will be enacted, but any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of ghgs would likely require us to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for refined products we produce. finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations insufficient ethanol supplies or disruption in ethanol supply may disrupt our ability to market ethanol blended fuels. if we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient quantities of ethanol to support our blending needs, our sale of ethanol blended gasoline could be interrupted or suspended which could result in lower profits. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry. we are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. if we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, both within and outside of our industry, there could be material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -31- table of contents in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. portions of our operations in the areas we operate may be impacted by competitors plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. the more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. there are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the united states. we may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of the assets we have recently acquired or of any future acquisitions with our operations, and in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions. from time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. for example, in 2009, we completed the acquisition of two refineries in tulsa, oklahoma. we will face certain challenges as we continue to integrate the operations of the tulsa facilities into our business. in particular, the acquisition of the tulsa facilities has significantly expanded our geographic scope, the types of business in which we are engaged, the number of our employees and the number of refineries we operate, thereby presenting us with significant challenges as we work to manage the substantial increases in scale resulting from the acquisition. we must integrate a large number of systems, both operational and administrative. delays in this process could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, expenses, operating results and financial condition. in addition, events outside of our control, including changes in state and federal regulations and laws and/or delays or failure to obtain environmental permits needed for integrating projects, could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition of the tulsa facilities. we can give no assurance that our acquisition of the tulsa facilities will perform in accordance with our expectations. we can give no assurance that our expectations with regards to integration and synergies will materialize. our failure to successfully integrate and operate the tulsa facilities and to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition, could adversely affect our operating, performing and financial results. acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly as a result of the acquisitions we recently completed or as a result of future acquisitions. acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition, including the assets and businesses we acquired in 2009. also, following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business or assets for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers. the renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors outside our control, including competition from other refiners and the demand for refined products in the markets that we serve. loss of, or reduction in amounts purchased by our major customers could have an adverse effect on us to the extent that, because of market limitations or transportation constraints, we are not able to correspondingly increase sales to other purchasers. -32- table of contents a material decrease in the supply of crude oil available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels. in order to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for new crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. in addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. if we are unable to secure additional crude oil supplies of sufficient quality or crude pipeline expansion to our refineries, we will be unable to take full advantage of current and future expansion of our refineries production capacities. the disruption or proration of the refined product distribution systems we utilize could negatively impact our profitability. we utilize various common carrier or other third party pipeline systems to deliver our products to market. the key systems utilized by navajo, woods cross, and tulsa are sfpp and plains, chevron, and magellan, respectively. all three refineries also utilize systems owned by hep. if these key pipelines or their associated tanks and terminals become inoperative or decrease the capacity available to us, we may not be able to sell our product or we may be required to hold our product in inventory or supply products to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by rail or additional tanker trucks from the refinery all of which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability. the potential operation of new or expanded refined product transportation pipelines could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets. other refined product transportation pipelines currently supply our existing markets or could potentially supply our existing markets in the future. the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the navajo refinery include longhorn, kinder morgan, plains, hep, and nustar energy. the longhorn pipeline is a common carrier pipeline that supplies the el paso market with refined products from refineries as distant as the texas gulf coast. the longhorn pipeline is a converted crude oil pipeline with an approximate capacity of 72,000 bpd of refined products. magellan purchased the longhorn pipeline out of bankruptcy in 2009. flying j formerly owned the longhorn pipeline prior to its bankruptcy in 2008. in addition to supplying arizona markets from el paso, kinder morgan also supplies arizona markets from the west coast. the plains pipeline currently supplies new mexico markets from el paso. in addition, nustar energy lp and hep own pipelines into the el paso and new mexico markets. the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the woods cross refinery include chevron, pioneer, and yellowstone pipelines. the chevron system transports products from salt lake city to idaho and eastern washington. the pioneer pipeline transports products from wyoming and montana refineries into salt lake city. the yellowstone pipeline transports products from montana refineries into eastern washington. the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the tulsa refinery include magellan, explorer, and kaneb pipelines. the explorer pipeline transports refined products from gulf coast refineries to tulsa where it interconnects with magellan prior to proceeding to the chicago area. the kaneb pipeline transports refined products from northern texas, oklahoma, and kansas refineries to markets in kansas, nebraska, iowa, north dakota, and south dakota. these markets are in close proximity to markets supplied by the magellan system. -33- table of contents the expansion of any of these pipelines, the conversion of existing pipelines into refined products, or the construction of a new pipeline into our markets could negatively impact the supply of refined products in our markets and our profitability. we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the crude supply and distribution network that serve our refineries and we own a significant equity interest in hep. we currently own a 34 % interest in hep, including the 2% general partner interest. hep operates a system of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines, distribution terminals and refinery tankage in texas, new mexico, utah, arizona, idaho, washington and oklahoma. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, by leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, by charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves our refineries in new mexico, utah and oklahoma under several long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements expiring in 2019 through 2024. furthermore, our financial statements include the consolidated results of hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on its significant customers, including us, competition from other pipelines, environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations, operational hazards and risks, pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge, limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep debt covenants, and other financial, operational and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect hep as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as hep is a consolidated subsidiary. additionally, these risks could affect hep ability to continue operations which could affect their ability to serve our supply and distribution network needs. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, power failures, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in our operations and may affect our ability to meet marketing commitments. furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. if any refinery were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. we maintain significant insurance coverage, but it does not cover all potential losses, costs or liabilities, and our business interruption insurance coverage generally does not apply unless a business interruption exceeds 45 days. we could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. our ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control. the occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -34- table of contents the energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. in recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. as a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice, or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. in addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. further, our underwriters could have credit issues that affect their ability to pay claims. the unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we lose any of our key personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance, non-compete agreements, or employment agreements with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. a shortage of trained workers due to retirements or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2009, approximately 21% of our employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates. effective february 1, 2009, a new agreement was reached with the united steelworkers which applies to approximately 7% of our employees, which agreement will now expire on january 31, 2012. as of december 31, 2009, approximately 14% of our employees were represented by labor unions under a collective bargaining agreement that expires in 2010. we may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. a failure to do so may increase our costs. in addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on september 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are not known at this time. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. future terrorist attacks could lead to even stronger, more costly initiatives or regulatory requirements. uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. in addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -35- table of contents changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. our petroleum business financial results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which may cause volatility in the price of our common stock. demand for gasoline products is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and road construction work. as a result, our results of operations for the first and fourth calendar quarters are generally lower than for those for the second and third quarters. the effects of seasonal demand for gasoline are partially offset by seasonality in demand for diesel fuel, which in the southwest region of the united states is generally higher in winter months as east-west trucking traffic moves south to avoid winter conditions on northern routes. however, unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and/or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which we sell our petroleum products could have the effect of reducing demand for gasoline and diesel fuel which could result in lower prices and reduce operating margins. we may be unable to pay future dividends. we will only be able to pay dividends from our available cash on hand, cash from operations or borrowings under our credit agreement. the declaration of future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. we cannot assure you that any dividends will be paid or the frequency of such payments. ongoing maintenance of effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act could cause us to incur additional expenditures of time and financial resources. we regularly document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on our controls over financial reporting. if, in the future, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls and, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to incur substantial expenditures of management time and financial resources to identify and correct any such failure. additionally, the failure to comply with section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may be adversely affected. a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets, and our stock price may decline. product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. product liability is a significant commercial risk. substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. there can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. failure of our products to meet required specifications could result in product liability claims from our shippers and customers arising from contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks and/or defective quality fuels. -36- table of contents if the market value of our inventory declines to an amount less than our lifo basis, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales, which would adversely affect our earnings. the nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial quantities of crude oil, refined petroleum product and blendstock inventories. because crude oil and refined petroleum products are commodities, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. because certain of our refining inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market value under the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) inventory valuation methodology, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our lifo basis. a material write-down could affect our operating income and profitability. from time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to obtain the necessary funds from financing activities. we have significant short-term cash needs to satisfy working capital requirements such as crude oil purchases which fluctuate with the pricing and sourcing of crude oil. we generally purchase crude oil for our refineries with cash generated from our operations. if the price of crude oil increases significantly, we may not have sufficient cash flow or borrowing capacity, and may not be able to sufficiently increase borrowing capacity, under our existing credit facilities to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. our failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also have significant long-term needs for cash, including those to support our expansion and upgrade plans, as well as for regulatory compliance. if credit markets tighten, it may become more difficult to obtain cash from third party sources. if we cannot generate cash flow or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to comply with regulatory deadlines or pursue our business strategies, in which case our operations may not perform as well as we currently expect and we could be subject to regulatory action. changes in our credit profile may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. an unfavorable credit profile could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require credit enhancement. due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms or credit enhancement requirements on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. this in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at desired capacity. a failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. this may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. although the domestic capital markets have shown signs of improvement in recent months, global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile due to a variety of factors, including uncertainty in the financial services sector, low consumer confidence, increased unemployment, geopolitical issues and the current weak economic conditions. in addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility that have negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. as a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from those markets diminished significantly. in particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease, to provide funding to borrowers. in addition, lending counterparties under existing revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. -37- table of contents our leverage may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, comply with the terms of our indebtedness or capitalize on business opportunities. as of december 31, 2009, the principal amount of our total outstanding debt was $300 million. our leverage could have important consequences. we require substantial cash flow to meet our payment obligations with respect to our indebtedness. our ability to make scheduled payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness or our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors. we believe that we will have sufficient cash flow from operations and available borrowings under our credit agreement to service our indebtedness. however, a significant downturn in our business or other development adversely affecting our cash flow could materially impair our ability to service our indebtedness. if our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to refinance all or a portion of our debt or sell assets. we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our existing indebtedness at maturity or otherwise or sell assets on terms that are commercially reasonable. our debt agreements contain operating and financial restrictions that might constrain our business and financing activities. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facilities and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. for example, our revolving credit facility imposes usual and customary requirements for this type of credit facility, including: (i) maintenance of certain levels of interest coverage and leverage ratios; (ii) limitations on liens, investments, indebtedness and dividends; (iii) a prohibition on changes in control and (iv) restrictions on engaging in mergers, consolidations and sales of assets, entering into certain lease obligations, and making certain investments or capital expenditures. if we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in the credit facility or another event of default occurs under the facility, the maturity of the loan could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our future working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. should we desire to undertake a transaction that is prohibited by the covenants in our credit facilities, we will need to obtain consent under our credit facilities. such refinancing may not be possible or may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. in addition, our obligations under our credit facilities are secured by inventory, receivables and pledged cash assets. if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facilities when due, the lenders could seek to foreclose on the assets or we may be required to contribute additional capital to our subsidiaries. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may need to use current cash flow to fund our pension and postretirement health care obligations, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position. we have benefit obligations in connection with our noncontributory defined benefit pension plans that provided retirement benefits for substantially all of our employees. however, effective january 1, 2007, the retirement plan was frozen to new employees not covered by collective bargaining agreements with labor unions. to the extent an employee not covered by a collective bargaining agreement was hired prior to january 1, 2007, and elected to participate in automatic contributions features under our defined contribution plan, their participation in future benefits of the retirement plan was frozen. we expect to contribute between $10 million to $20 million to the retirement plan in 2010. future adverse changes in the financial markets could result in significant charges to stockholders equity and additional significant increases in future pension expense and funding requirements. -38- table of contents we also have benefit obligations in connection with our unfunded postretirement health care plans that provide health care benefits as part of the voluntary early retirement program offered to eligible employees. as part of the early retirement program, we allow qualified retiring employees to continue coverage at a reduced cost under our group medical plans until normal retirement age. additionally, we maintain an unfunded postretirement medical plan whereby certain retirees between the ages of 62 and 65 can receive benefits paid by us. as of december 31, 2009, the total accumulated postretirement benefit obligation under our postretirement medical plans was $6.7 million. increased participation in this program and/or increasing medical costs may affect our ability to pay required health care benefits causing us to have to divert funds away from other areas of the business to pay their costs. the new and revamped equipment in our facilities may not perform according to expectations which may cause unexpected maintenance and downtime and could have a negative effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. we are completing major capital investment programs at both our navajo and woods cross refineries. at the tulsa refinery we have various projects planned to integrate the two facilities to fully utilize their capabilities. all three refineries also have various environmental compliance related projects. the installation of new equipment and the revamp of key existing equipment involve significant risks and uncertainties, including the following: equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels, actual yields or product quality may differ from design, actual operating costs may be higher than expected, equipment may need to be redesigned, revamped, or replaced for the new units to perform as expected quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of ebitda to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income plus (i) interest expense, net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under gaap; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements, with the exception of ebitda from discontinued operations. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda from continuing operations. years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in thousands) income from continuing operations $ 36,343 $ 123,718 $ 334,128 subtract noncontrolling interest in income from continuing operations (21,134 ) (4,512 ) add income tax provision 7,460 64,028 165,316 add interest expense 40,346 23,955 1,086 subtract interest income (5,045 ) (10,797 ) (15,089 ) add depreciation and amortization 98,751 62,995 43,456 ebitda from continuing operations $ 156,721 $ 259,387 $ 528,897 reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. we calculate refinery gross margin and net operating margin using net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold. these two margins do not include the effect of depreciation and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. -65- table of contents refinery gross margin refinery gross margin per barrel is the difference between average net sales price and average cost of products per barrel of produced refined products. refinery gross margin for each of our refineries and for our three refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery net sales $ 73.15 $ 108.52 $ 89.68 less cost of products 65.95 98.97 74.10 refinery gross margin $ 7.20 $ 9.55 $ 15.58 woods cross refinery net sales $ 70.25 $ 110.07 $ 90.09 less cost of products 58.98 93.47 69.40 refinery gross margin $ 11.27 $ 16.60 $ 20.69 tulsa refinery net sales $ 78.89 $ $ less cost of products 74.56 refinery gross margin $ 4.33 $ $ consolidated net sales $ 74.06 $ 108.83 $ 89.77 less cost of products 66.85 97.87 73.03 refinery gross margin $ 7.21 $ 10.96 $ 16.74 net operating margin net operating margin per barrel is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel of produced refined products. net operating margin for each of our refineries and for our three refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery refinery gross margin $ 7.20 $ 9.55 $ 15.58 less refinery operating expenses 4.81 4.58 4.30 net operating margin $ 2.39 $ 4.97 $ 11.28 woods cross refinery refinery gross margin $ 11.27 $ 16.60 $ 20.69 less refinery operating expenses 6.60 7.42 4.86 net operating margin $ 4.67 $ 9.18 $ 15.83 tulsa refinery refinery gross margin $ 4.33 $ $ less refinery operating expenses 5.25 net operating margin $ (0.92 ) $ $ consolidated refinery gross margin $ 7.21 $ 10.96 $ 16.74 less refinery operating expenses 5.24 5.14 4.43 net operating margin $ 1.97 $ 5.82 $ 12.31 -66- table of contents below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for (i) net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold, and (ii) net operating margin and refinery gross margin. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. reconciliations of refined product sales from produced products sold to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) navajo refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 73.15 $ 108.52 $ 89.68 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 87,140 89,580 88,920 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 2,326,616 $ 3,557,967 $ 2,910,636 woods cross refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 70.25 $ 110.07 $ 90.09 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 26,870 22,370 26,130 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 688,980 $ 901,189 $ 859,229 tulsa refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 78.89 $ $ times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 37,570 times number of days in period 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 1,081,823 $ $ sum of refined product sales from produced products sold from our three refineries (4) $ 4,097,419 $ 4,459,156 $ 3,769,865 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 106,969 384,073 383,396 total refined products sales 4,204,388 4,843,229 4,153,261 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 453,958 860,642 491,150 add other refining segment revenue (3) 128,591 133,578 145,753 total refining segment revenue 4,786,937 5,837,449 4,790,164 add hep segment sales and other revenues 146,561 94,439 add corporate and other revenues 2,248 2,641 1,578 subtract consolidations and eliminations (101,478 ) (74,172 ) sales and other revenues $ 4,834,268 $ 5,860,357 $ 4,791,742 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. additionally, we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at carryover cost. (3) other refining segment revenue includes revenues associated with holly asphalt and revenue derived from feedstock and sulfur credit sales. (4) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 74.06 $ 108.83 $ 89.77 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 151,580 111,950 115,050 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 4,097,419 $ 4,459,156 $ 3,769,865 -67- table of contents reconciliation of average cost of products per produced barrel sold to total cost of products sold years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) navajo refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 65.95 $ 98.97 $ 74.10 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 87,140 89,580 88,920 times number of days in period 365 366 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 2,097,612 $ 3,244,858 $ 2,404,975 woods cross refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 58.98 $ 93.47 $ 69.40 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 26,870 22,370 26,130 times number of days in period 365 366 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 578,449 $ 765,278 $ 661,899 tulsa refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 74.56 $ $ times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 37,570 times number of days in period 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 1,022,445 $ $ sum of cost of products for produced products sold from our three refineries (4) $ 3,698,506 $ 4,010,136 $ 3,066,874 add refined product costs from purchased products sold and rounding (1) 114,650 389,944 374,432 total refined cost of products sold 3,813,156 4,400,080 3,441,306 add crude oil cost of direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 449,488 853,360 492,222 add other refining segment cost of products sold (3) 75,229 101,144 69,960 total refining segment cost of products sold 4,337,873 5,354,584 4,003,488 subtract consolidations and eliminations (99,865 ) (73,885 ) cost of products sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 4,238,008 $ 5,280,699 $ 4,003,488 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. additionally, we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at carryover cost. (3) other refining segment cost of products sold includes the cost of products for holly asphalt and costs attributable to feedstock and sulfur credit sales. (4) the above calculations of cost of products for produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 66.85 $ 97.87 $ 73.03 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 151,580 111,950 115,050 times number of days in period 365 366 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 3,698,506 $ 4,010,136 $ 3,066,874 -68- table of contents reconciliation of average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) navajo refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 4.81 $ 4.58 $ 4.30 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 87,140 89,580 88,920 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 152,987 $ 150,161 $ 139,560 woods cross refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 6.60 $ 7.42 $ 4.86 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 26,870 22,370 26,130 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 64,730 $ 60,751 $ 46,352 tulsa refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 5.25 $ $ times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 37,570 times number of days in period 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 71,994 $ $ sum of refinery operating expenses per produced products sold from our three refineries (2) $ 289,711 $ 210,912 $ 185,912 add other refining segment operating expenses and rounding (1) 23,609 21,599 23,357 total refining segment operating expenses 313,320 232,511 209,269 add hep segment operating expenses 44,003 33,353 add corporate and other costs (468 ) (159 ) 12 operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 356,855 $ 265,705 $ 209,281 (1) other refining segment operating expenses include the marketing costs associated with our refining segment and the operating expenses of holly asphalt. (2) the above calculations of refinery operating expenses per produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 5.24 $ 5.14 $ 4.43 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 151,580 111,950 115,050 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 289,711 $ 210,912 $ 185,912 reconciliation of net operating margin per barrel to refinery gross margin per barrel to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) navajo refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 2.39 $ 4.97 $ 11.28 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 4.81 4.58 4.30 refinery gross margin per barrel 7.20 9.55 15.58 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 65.95 98.97 74.10 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 73.15 $ 108.52 $ 89.68 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 87,140 89,580 88,920 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 2,326,616 $ 3,557,967 $ 2,910,636 -69- table of contents years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) woods cross refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 4.67 $ 9.18 $ 15.83 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 6.60 7.42 4.86 refinery gross margin per barrel 11.27 16.60 20.69 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 58.98 93.47 69.40 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 70.25 $ 110.07 $ 90.09 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 26,870 22,370 26,130 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 688,980 $ 901,189 $ 859,229 tulsa refinery net operating margin per barrel $ (0.92 ) $ $ add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 5.25 refinery gross margin per barrel 4.33 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 74.56 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 78.89 $ $ times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 37,570 times number of days in period 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 1,081,823 $ $ sum of refined product sales from produced products sold from our three refineries (4) $ 4,097,419 $ 4,459,156 $ 3,769,865 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 106,969 384,073 383,396 total refined product sales 4,204,388 4,843,229 4,153,261 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 453,958 860,642 491,150 add other refining segment revenue (3) 128,591 133,578 145,753 total refining segment revenue 4,786,937 5,837,449 4,790,164 add hep segment sales and other revenues 146,561 94,439 add corporate and other revenues 2,248 2,641 1,578 subtract consolidations and eliminations (101,478 ) (74,172 ) sales and other revenues $ 4,834,268 $ 5,860,357 $ 4,791,742 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. additionally, we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at carryover cost. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the revenues associated with holly asphalt and revenue derived from feedstock and sulfur credit sales. (4) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2009 2008 2007 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) net operating margin per barrel $ 1.97 $ 5.82 $ 12.31 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 5.24 5.14 4.43 refinery gross margin per barrel 7.21 10.96 16.74 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 66.85 97.87 73.03 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 74.06 $ 108.83 $ 89.77 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 151,580 111,950 115,050 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 4,097,419 $ 4,459,156 $ 3,769,865 -70- table of contentsrisk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, product and crude pipeline capacities, changes in transportation costs, accidents or interruptions in transportation, competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve, and factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates based upon worldwide and local market conditions. our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results therefore depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flows. also, crude oil supply contracts are generally short-term contracts with market-responsive pricing provisions. we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. further, if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that -28- table of contents can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. additionally, our growth strategy includes projects that permit access to new and/or more profitable markets such as our unev pipeline joint venture, a 12-inch refined products pipeline running from salt lake city, utah to las vegas, nevada that is currently under construction and in which our subsidiary owns a 75% interest. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control, including: denial or delay in issuing requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; compliance with or liability under environmental regulations; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions explosions, fires, spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project debt or equity financing costs; and/or nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. in addition, a component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations; difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; difficulties in achieving anticipated operational improvements; incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. we may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. -29- table of contents our leverage may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, comply with the terms of our indebtedness or capitalize on business opportunities. as of december 31, 2010, the principal amount of our total consolidated outstanding debt was $833 million, including $494 million of hep debt. our leverage could have important consequences. we require substantial cash flow to meet our payment obligations with respect to our indebtedness. our ability to make scheduled payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness or our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors. we believe that we will have sufficient cash flow from operations and available borrowings under our credit agreement to service our indebtedness. however, a significant downturn in our business or other development adversely affecting our cash flow could materially impair our ability to service our indebtedness. if our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to refinance all or a portion of our debt or sell assets. we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our existing indebtedness at maturity or otherwise or sell assets on terms that are commercially reasonable. we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. this may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. although the domestic capital markets have shown signs of improvement in recent months, global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile due to a variety of factors, including uncertainty in the financial services sector, low consumer confidence, continued high unemployment, geopolitical issues and the current weak economic conditions. in addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility that have negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. as a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from those markets diminished significantly. in particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease, to provide funding to borrowers. in addition, lending counterparties under existing revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, energy, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal or may require operational changes, which may involve significant costs. furthermore, a violation of permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or refinery shutdowns. in addition, major modifications of our operations due to changes in the law could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. over the years, there have been and continue to be ongoing communications, including notices of violations, and discussions about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. -30- table of contents as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed. we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. we cannot predict what additional health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. however, new environmental laws and regulations, including new regulations relating to alternative energy sources and the risk of global climate change, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. the epa has begun regulating certain emissions of greenhouse gases, or ghgs, (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) from large stationary sources like refineries under the authority of the caa, and it is possible that congress could pass federal legislation that creates a comprehensive ghg regulatory program, either directly or indirectly, such as via a federal renewal energy standard. also, new federal or state legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of ghgs in areas where we conduct business could adversely affect our operations and demand for our products. the costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. from time to time, new federal energy policy legislation is enacted by the u.s. congress. for example, in december 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act, which, among other provisions, mandates annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. these statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. in the near term, the new renewable fuel standard presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining industries and may require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased ethanol use. other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties, and item 3, legal proceedings. the adoption of climate change legislation by congress could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce. in december 2009, the epa determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other ghgs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal caa. the epa recently adopted two sets of rules regulating ghg emissions under the caa, one of which requires -31- table of contents a reduction in emissions of ghgs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of ghgs from certain large stationary sources, effective january 2, 2011. the epa rules relating to emissions of ghgs from large stationary sources of emissions are currently subject to a number of legal challenges, but the federal courts have thus far declined to issue any injunctions to prevent epa from implementing or requiring state environmental agencies to implement the rules. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions from specified large ghg emission sources in the united states, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring after january 1, 2010. in addition, the united states congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs primarily through the planned development of ghg emission inventories and/or regional ghg cap and trade programs. these cap and trade programs generally work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and on an annual basis surrender emission allowances. the number of allowances available for purchase is reduced over time in an effort to achieve the overall ghg emission reduction goal. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the refined products that we produce. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may not produce a return on investment. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. one or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. we have taken significant measures to expand and upgrade units in our refineries by installing new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve refinery capacity. the installation and redesign of key equipment at our refineries involves significant uncertainties, including the following: our upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels; the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design and/or specifications and redesign or modification of the equipment may be required to correct equipment that does not perform as expected, which could require facility shutdowns until the equipment has been redesigned or modified. any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment, or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we expect to execute turnarounds at our refineries, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties. these risks include delays and incurrence of additional and unforeseen costs. the turnarounds allow us to perform -32- table of contents maintenance, upgrades, overhaul and repair of process equipment and materials, during which time all or a portion of the refinery will be under scheduled downtime. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, power failures, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events might result in a loss of equipment or life or destruction of property, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as a curtailment or an interruption in our operations and may affect our ability to meet marketing commitments. furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. if any refinery were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. we maintain significant insurance coverage, but it does not cover all potential losses, costs or liabilities, and our business interruption insurance coverage generally does not apply unless a business interruption exceeds 45 days. we could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. our ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control. the occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. in recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. as a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice, or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. in addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. further, our underwriters could have credit issues that affect their ability to pay claims. the unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. insufficient ethanol, biodiesel, and other advanced biofuel supplies, or disruption in supply, may disrupt our ability to meet rfs2 regulations mandated by the federal government or required in the fuels markets that holly serves. if we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient quantities of ethanol our blending needs, our sale of ethanol gasoline (required in several of our markets) could be interrupted or suspended which could result in lower profits. likewise, if we are unable to purchase renewable identification numbers ( rins ), or if our supply of rins is such that we have to pay a significantly higher price for rins to meet our mandated blending volumes of biofuels per the rfs2 regulation, our profits would be significantly lower. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance with rfs2 on to our customers, our profits would be significantly lower. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater -33- table of contents resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry. we are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. if we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, both within and outside of our industry, there could be material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. portions of our operations in the areas we operate may be impacted by competitors plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. the more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. there are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the united states. we may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of the assets we have recently acquired or of any future acquisitions with our operations, and in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions. from time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. for example, we face certain challenges as we continue to integrate the operations of the tulsa facilities, purchased in 2009, into our business. acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly as a result of the acquisitions we recently completed or as a result of future acquisitions. acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition, including the assets and businesses we acquired in 2009. also, following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business or assets for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. our proposed merger of equals business combination with frontier is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control. failure to complete the merger within the expected timeframe or at all could adversely affect our stock price and our future business and financial results. our proposed merger of equals business combination with frontier is subject to a number of conditions beyond our control that may prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect the merger completion, including approval of our stockholders and of frontier stockholders and the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods under u.s. antitrust laws and various approvals or consents that must be obtained from regulatory authorities or third parties. we cannot predict whether and when these conditions will be satisfied. any delay in completing the merger could cause the combined company not to realize some or all of the synergies expected to be achieved. we -34- table of contents will also incur substantial transaction costs whether or not the merger is completed. any failure to complete the merger could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and our future business and financial results. the anticipated benefits of our merger may not be realized fully or at all or may take longer to realize than expected . the merger involves the integration of two companies that have previously operated independently. after the merger, the two companies will devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the two companies. delays in this process could adversely affect the combined company business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. even if we are able to integrate our business operations successfully, there can be no assurance that this integration will result in the realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that we currently expect from this integration or that these benefits will be achieved within the anticipated time frame. the new and revamped equipment in our facilities may not perform according to expectations which may cause unexpected maintenance and downtime and could have a negative effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. we are completing major capital investment programs at both our navajo and woods cross refineries. at the tulsa refinery we have various projects planned to integrate the two facilities to fully utilize their capabilities. all three refineries also have various environmental compliance related projects. the installation of new equipment and the revamp of key existing equipment involve significant risks and uncertainties, including the following: equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels, actual yields or product quality may differ from design, actual operating costs may be higher than expected, equipment may need to be redesigned, revamped, or replaced for the new units to perform as expected a material decrease in the supply of crude oil available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels. to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. in addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries or the potential operation of a new, converted or expanded crude oil pipeline that transports crude oil to other markets could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. if we are unable to secure additional crude oil supplies of sufficient quality or crude pipeline expansion to our refineries, we will be unable to take full advantage of current and future expansion of our refineries production capacities. the disruption or proration of the refined product distribution systems we utilize could negatively impact our profitability. we utilize various common carrier or other third party pipeline systems to deliver our products to market. the key systems utilized by navajo, woods cross, and tulsa are sfpp and plains, chevron, and magellan, respectively. all three refineries also utilize systems owned by hep. if these key pipelines or their associated tanks and terminals become inoperative or decrease the capacity available to us, we may not be able to sell our product or we may be required to hold our product in inventory or supply products to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by rail or additional tanker trucks from the refinery all of which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability. -35- table of contents the potential operation of new or expanded refined product transportation pipelines could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets. other refined product transportation pipelines currently supply our existing markets or could potentially supply our existing markets in the future. the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the navajo refinery include longhorn, kinder morgan, plains, hep, and nustar energy. the longhorn pipeline is a common carrier pipeline that supplies the el paso market with refined products from refineries as distant as the texas gulf coast. the longhorn pipeline is a converted crude oil pipeline with an approximate capacity of 72,000 bpd of refined products. magellan purchased the longhorn pipeline out of bankruptcy in 2009. flying j formerly owned the longhorn pipeline prior to its bankruptcy in 2008. in addition to supplying arizona markets from el paso, kinder morgan also supplies arizona markets from the west coast. the plains pipeline currently supplies new mexico markets from el paso. in addition, nustar energy lp and hep own pipelines into the el paso and new mexico markets. the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the woods cross refinery include chevron, pioneer, and yellowstone pipelines. the chevron system transports products from salt lake city to idaho and eastern washington. the pioneer pipeline transports products from wyoming and montana refineries into salt lake city. the yellowstone pipeline transports products from montana refineries into eastern washington. the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the tulsa refinery include magellan, explorer, and kaneb pipelines. the explorer pipeline transports refined products from gulf coast refineries to tulsa where it interconnects with magellan prior to proceeding to the chicago area. the kaneb pipeline transports refined products from northern texas, oklahoma, and kansas refineries to markets in kansas, nebraska, iowa, north dakota, and south dakota. these markets are in close proximity to markets supplied by the magellan system. the expansion of any of these pipelines, the conversion of existing pipelines into refined products, or the construction of a new pipeline into our markets could negatively impact the supply of refined products in our markets and our profitability. we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the crude supply and distribution network that serve our refineries and we own a significant equity interest in hep. we currently own a 34% interest in hep, including the 2% general partner interest. hep operates a system of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines, distribution terminals and refinery tankage in texas, new mexico, utah, arizona, idaho, washington and oklahoma. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, by leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, by charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves our refineries in new mexico, utah and oklahoma under several long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements expiring in 2019 through 2025. furthermore, our financial statements include the consolidated results of hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on its significant customers, including us, competition from other pipelines, environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations, operational hazards and risks, pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge, limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep debt covenants, and other financial, operational and legal risks. -36- table of contents the occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect hep as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as hep is a consolidated vie. additionally, these risks could affect hep ability to continue operations which could affect their ability to serve our supply and distribution network needs. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. we are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our key customers and vendors. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers. if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. in addition, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide us with products or services could result in higher costs or interfere with our ability to successfully conduct our business. any substantial increase in the nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers or vendors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on september 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are not known at this time. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. future terrorist attacks could lead to even stronger, more costly initiatives or regulatory requirements. uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. in addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers. the renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors outside our control, including competition from other refiners and the demand for refined products in the markets that we serve. loss of, or reduction in amounts purchased by our major customers could have an adverse effect on us to the extent that, because of market limitations or transportation constraints, we are not able to correspondingly increase sales to other purchasers. our petroleum business financial results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which may cause volatility in the price of our common stock. demand for gasoline products is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and road construction work. as a result, our results of operations for the first and fourth calendar quarters are generally lower than for those for the second and third quarters. the effects of seasonal demand for gasoline are partially offset by seasonality in demand for diesel fuel, which in the southwest region of the united states is generally higher in winter months as east-west trucking traffic moves south to avoid -37- table of contents winter conditions on northern routes. however, unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and/or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which we sell our petroleum products could have the effect of reducing demand for gasoline and diesel fuel which could result in lower prices and reduce operating margins. we may be unable to pay future dividends. we will only be able to pay dividends from our available cash on hand, cash from operations or borrowings under our credit agreement. the declaration of future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. we cannot assure you that any dividends will be paid or the frequency of such payments. ongoing maintenance of effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act could cause us to incur additional expenditures of time and financial resources. we regularly document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on our controls over financial reporting. if, in the future, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls and, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to incur substantial expenditures of management time and financial resources to identify and correct any such failure. additionally, the failure to comply with section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may be adversely affected. a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets, and our stock price may decline. product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. product liability is a significant commercial risk. substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. there can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. failure of our products to meet required specifications could result in product liability claims from our shippers and customers arising from contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks and/or defective quality fuels. if the market value of our inventory declines to an amount less than our lifo basis, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales, which would adversely affect our earnings. the nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial quantities of crude oil, refined petroleum product and blendstock inventories. because crude oil and refined petroleum products are commodities, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. because certain of our refining inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market value under the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) inventory valuation methodology, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our lifo basis. a material write-down could affect our operating income and profitability. from time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to obtain the necessary funds from financing activities. we have significant short-term cash needs to satisfy working capital requirements such as crude oil purchases which fluctuate with the pricing and sourcing of crude oil. -38- table of contents we generally purchase crude oil for our refineries with cash generated from our operations. if the price of crude oil increases significantly, we may not have sufficient cash flow or borrowing capacity, and may not be able to sufficiently increase borrowing capacity, under our existing credit facilities to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. our failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also have significant long-term needs for cash, including those to support our expansion and upgrade plans, as well as for regulatory compliance. if credit markets tighten, it may become more difficult to obtain cash from third party sources. if we cannot generate cash flow or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to comply with regulatory deadlines or pursue our business strategies, in which case our operations may not perform as well as we currently expect and we could be subject to regulatory action. changes in our credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. an unfavorable credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require credit enhancement. due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms or credit enhancement requirements on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. this in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at desired capacity. a failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. our debt agreements contain operating and financial restrictions that might constrain our business and financing activities. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facilities and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. for example, our revolving credit facility imposes usual and customary requirements for this type of credit facility, including: (i) maintenance of certain levels of interest coverage and leverage ratios; (ii) limitations on liens, investments, indebtedness and dividends; (iii) a prohibition on changes in control and (iv) restrictions on engaging in mergers, consolidations and sales of assets, entering into certain lease obligations, and making certain investments or capital expenditures. if we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in the credit facility or another event of default occurs under the facility, the maturity of the loan could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our future working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. should we desire to undertake a transaction that is prohibited by the covenants in our credit facilities, we will need to obtain consent under our credit facilities. such refinancing may not be possible or may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. in addition, our obligations under our credit facilities are secured by inventory, receivables and pledged cash assets. if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facilities when due, the lenders could seek to foreclose on the assets or we may be required to contribute additional capital to our subsidiaries. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business may suffer due to a change in the composition of our board of directors, or if any of our key senior executives or other key employees discontinues employment with us. furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance, non-compete agreements, or employment agreements with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. -39- table of contents furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. a shortage of trained workers due to retirements or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 21% of our employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates. effective february 1, 2009, a new agreement was reached with the united steelworkers which applies to approximately 7% of our employees, which agreement will now expire on january 31, 2012. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 14% of our employees were represented by labor unions under a collective bargaining agreement that expires in 2016. we may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. a failure to do so may increase our costs. in addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. uncertainty about the merger and diversion of management could harm us or the combined company, whether or not the merger is completed. the announcement of the merger could result in current and prospective employees experiencing uncertainty about their future with us or the combined company. these uncertainties may impair our ability to retain, recruit or motivate key personnel. completion of the merger will also require a significant amount of time and attention from our management. the diversion of management attention away from ongoing operations could adversely affect our business relationships. even if the merger is consummated, integration of operations will require substantial time after consummation of the merger, and the combined company may lose management personnel and other key employees and be unable to attract and retain such personnel and employees. we may need to use current cash flow to fund our pension and postretirement health care obligations, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position. we have benefit obligations in connection with our noncontributory defined benefit pension plans that provided retirement benefits for substantially all of our employees. however, effective january 1, 2007, the retirement plan was frozen to new employees not covered by collective bargaining agreements with labor unions. to the extent an employee not covered by a collective bargaining agreement was hired prior to january 1, 2007, and elected to participate in automatic contributions features under our defined contribution plan, their participation in future benefits of the retirement plan was frozen. we expect to contribute between zero to $10 million to the retirement plan in 2011. future adverse changes in the financial markets could result in significant charges to stockholders equity and additional significant increases in future pension expense and funding requirements. we also have benefit obligations in connection with our unfunded postretirement health care plans that provide health care benefits as part of the voluntary early retirement program offered to eligible employees. as part of the early retirement program, we allow qualified retiring employees to continue coverage at a reduced cost under our group medical plans until normal retirement age. additionally, we maintain an unfunded postretirement medical plan whereby certain retirees between the ages of 62 and 65 can receive benefits paid by us. as of december 31, 2010, the total accumulated postretirement benefit obligation under our postretirement medical plans was $7.9 million. increased participation in this program and/or increasing medical costs may affect our ability to pay required health care benefits causing us to have to divert funds away from other areas of the business to pay their costs. we could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of our products to meet certain quality specifications. a significant portion of our operating responsibility on refined product pipelines is to insure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. if our quality control measures were to fail, off specification product could be sent out to public gasoline stations. this type of incident could result in liability claims regarding damages -40- table of contents caused by the off specification fuel or could impact our ability to retain existing customers or to acquire new customers, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of ebitda to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income plus (i) interest expense, net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under gaap; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda from continuing operations. years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in thousands) income from continuing operations $ 133,051 $ 36,343 $ 123,718 subtract noncontrolling interest in income from continuing operations (29,087 ) (21,134 ) (4,512 ) add income tax provision 59,312 7,460 64,028 add interest expense 74,196 40,346 23,955 subtract interest income (1,168 ) (5,045 ) (10,797 ) add depreciation and amortization 117,529 98,751 62,995 ebitda from continuing operations $ 353,833 $ 156,721 $ 259,387 reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and an absolute basis. we calculate refinery gross margin and net operating margin using net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold. these two margins do not include the effect of depreciation and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. -65- table of contents refinery gross margin refinery gross margin per barrel is the difference between average net sales price and average cost of products per barrel of produced refined products. refinery gross margin for each of our refineries and for our three refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery net sales $ 90.37 $ 73.15 $ 108.52 less cost of products 83.12 65.95 98.97 refinery gross margin $ 7.25 $ 7.20 $ 9.55 woods cross refinery net sales $ 94.26 $ 70.25 $ 110.07 less cost of products 75.54 58.98 93.47 refinery gross margin $ 18.72 $ 11.27 $ 16.60 tulsa refinery net sales $ 90.84 $ 78.89 $ less cost of products 83.29 74.56 refinery gross margin $ 7.55 $ 4.33 $ consolidated net sales $ 91.06 $ 74.06 $ 108.83 less cost of products 82.27 66.85 97.87 refinery gross margin $ 8.79 $ 7.21 $ 10.96 net operating margin net operating margin per barrel is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel of produced refined products. net operating margin for each of our refineries and for our three refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery refinery gross margin $ 7.25 $ 7.20 $ 9.55 less refinery operating expenses 4.95 4.81 4.58 net operating margin $ 2.30 $ 2.39 $ 4.97 woods cross refinery refinery gross margin $ 18.72 $ 11.27 $ 16.60 less refinery operating expenses 6.09 6.60 7.42 net operating margin $ 12.63 $ 4.67 $ 9.18 tulsa refinery refinery gross margin $ 7.55 $ 4.33 $ less refinery operating expenses 4.94 5.25 net operating margin $ 2.61 $ (0.92 ) $ consolidated refinery gross margin $ 8.79 $ 7.21 $ 10.96 less refinery operating expenses 5.08 5.24 5.14 net operating margin $ 3.71 $ 1.97 $ 5.82 -66- table of contents below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for (i) net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold, and (ii) net operating margin and refinery gross margin. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. reconciliations of refined product sales from produced products sold to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) navajo refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 90.37 $ 73.15 $ 108.52 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 92,550 87,140 89,580 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 3,052,766 $ 2,326,616 $ 3,557,967 woods cross refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 94.26 $ 70.25 $ 110.07 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 27,810 26,870 22,370 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 956,800 $ 688,980 $ 901,189 tulsa refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 90.84 $ 78.89 $ times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 107,780 37,570 times number of days in period 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 3,573,618 $ 1,081,823 $ sum of refined product sales from produced products sold from our three refineries (1) $ 7,583,184 $ 4,097,419 $ 4,459,156 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (2) 130,348 106,969 384,073 total refined products sales 7,713,532 4,204,388 4,843,229 add direct sales of excess crude oil (3) 459,743 453,958 860,642 add other refining segment revenue (4) 113,725 131,475 133,578 total refining segment revenue 8,287,000 4,789,821 5,837,449 add hep segment sales and other revenues 182,114 146,561 94,439 add corporate and other revenues 415 (636 ) 2,641 subtract consolidations and eliminations (146,600 ) (101,478 ) (74,172 ) sales and other revenues $ 8,322,929 $ 4,834,268 $ 5,860,357 (1) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. (2) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments. (3) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. additionally, we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at carryover cost. (4) other refining segment revenue includes revenues associated with holly asphalt and revenue derived from feedstock and sulfur credit sales. years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 91.06 $ 74.06 $ 108.83 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 228,140 151,580 111,950 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 7,583,184 $ 4,097,419 $ 4,459,156 -67- table of contents reconciliation of average cost of products per produced barrel sold to total cost of products sold years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) navajo refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 83.12 $ 65.95 $ 98.97 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 92,550 87,140 89,580 times number of days in period 365 365 366 cost of products for produced products sold $ 2,807,856 $ 2,097,612 $ 3,244,858 woods cross refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 75.54 $ 58.98 $ 93.47 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 27,810 26,870 22,370 times number of days in period 365 365 366 cost of products for produced products sold $ 766,780 $ 578,449 $ 765,278 tulsa refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 83.29 $ 74.56 $ times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 107,780 37,570 times number of days in period 365 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 3,276,604 $ 1,022,445 $ sum of cost of products for produced products sold from our three refineries (1) $ 6,851,240 $ 3,698,506 $ 4,010,136 add refined product costs from purchased products sold and rounding (2) 131,141 114,650 389,944 total refined cost of products sold 6,982,381 3,813,156 4,400,080 add crude oil cost of direct sales of excess crude oil (3) 454,566 449,488 853,360 add other refining segment cost of products sold (4) 73,410 75,229 101,144 total refining segment cost of products sold 7,510,357 4,337,873 5,354,584 subtract consolidations and eliminations (143,208 ) (99,865 ) (73,885 ) cost of products sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 7,367,149 $ 4,238,008 $ 5,280,699 (1) the above calculations of cost of products for produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. (2) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments. (3) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. additionally, we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at carryover cost. (4) other refining segment cost of products sold includes the cost of products for holly asphalt and costs attributable to feedstock and sulfur credit sales. years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 82.27 $ 66.85 $ 97.87 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 228,140 151,580 111,950 times number of days in period 365 365 366 cost of products for produced products sold $ 6,851,240 $ 3,698,506 $ 4,010,136 -68- table of contents reconciliation of average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) navajo refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 4.95 $ 4.81 $ 4.58 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 92,550 87,140 89,580 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 167,215 $ 152,987 $ 150,161 woods cross refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 6.09 $ 6.60 $ 7.42 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 27,810 26,870 22,370 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 61,817 $ 64,730 $ 60,751 tulsa refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 4.94 $ 5.25 $ times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 107,780 37,570 times number of days in period 365 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 194,338 $ 71,994 $ sum of refinery operating expenses per produced products sold from our three refineries (1) $ 423,370 $ 289,711 $ 210,912 add other refining segment operating expenses and rounding (2) 26,220 23,609 21,599 total refining segment operating expenses 449,590 313,320 232,511 add hep segment operating expenses 52,947 44,003 33,353 add corporate and other costs 2,387 41 128 subtract consolidations and eliminations (510 ) (509 ) (287 ) operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 504,414 $ 356,855 $ 265,705 (1) the above calculations of refinery operating expenses per produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. (2) other refining segment operating expenses include the marketing costs associated with our refining segment and the operating expenses of holly asphalt. years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 5.08 $ 5.24 $ 5.14 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 228,140 151,580 111,950 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 423,370 $ 289,711 $ 210,912 reconciliation of net operating margin per barrel to refinery gross margin per barrel to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) navajo refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 2.30 $ 2.39 $ 4.97 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 4.95 4.81 4.58 refinery gross margin per barrel 7.25 7.20 9.55 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 83.12 65.95 98.97 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 90.37 $ 73.15 $ 108.52 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 92,550 87,140 89,580 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 3,052,766 $ 2,326,616 $ 3,557,967 -69- table of contents years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) woods cross refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 12.63 $ 4.67 $ 9.18 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 6.09 6.60 7.42 refinery gross margin per barrel 18.72 11.27 16.60 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 75.54 58.98 93.47 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 94.26 $ 70.25 $ 110.07 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 27,810 26,870 22,370 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 956,800 $ 688,980 $ 901,189 tulsa refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 2.61 $ (0.92 ) $ add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 4.94 5.25 refinery gross margin per barrel 7.55 4.33 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 83.29 74.56 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 90.84 $ 78.89 $ times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 107,780 37,570 times number of days in period 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 3,573,618 $ 1,081,823 $ sum of refined product sales from produced products sold from our three refineries (1) $ 7,583,184 $ 4,097,419 $ 4,459,156 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (2) 130,348 106,969 384,073 total refined product sales 7,713,532 4,204,388 4,843,229 add direct sales of excess crude oil (3) 459,743 453,958 860,642 add other refining segment revenue (4) 113,725 131,475 133,578 total refining segment revenue 8,287,000 4,789,821 5,837,449 add hep segment sales and other revenues 182,114 146,561 94,439 add corporate and other revenues 415 (636 ) 2,641 subtract consolidations and eliminations (146,600 ) (101,478 ) (74,172 ) sales and other revenues $ 8,322,929 $ 4,834,268 $ 5,860,357 (1) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. (2) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products or to meet delivery commitments. (3) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. additionally, we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at carryover cost. (4) other refining segment revenue includes the revenues associated with holly asphalt and revenue derived from feedstock and sulfur credit sales. years ended december 31, 2010 2009 2008 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) net operating margin per barrel $ 3.71 $ 1.97 $ 5.82 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 5.08 5.24 5.14 refinery gross margin per barrel 8.79 7.21 10.96 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 82.27 66.85 97.87 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 91.06 $ 74.06 $ 108.83 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 228,140 151,580 111,950 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 7,583,184 $ 4,097,419 $ 4,459,156 -70- table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see "risk management" under "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations."quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see "risk management" under "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations."quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see "risk management" under "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations."quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ebitda is calculated as net income plus (i) interest expense net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation, depletion and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation based upon generally accepted accounting principles: however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in the consolidated financial statements of the company. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income, as an indication of operating performance of the company or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it enhances an investor understanding of the company ability to satisfy principal and interest obligations with respect to the company indebtedness and to use cash for other purposes, including capital expenditures. ebitda is also used by the company management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. years ended december 31, years ended july 31, 2003 2002 2002 2001 (in thousands) net income $ 46,053 $ 18,825 $ 32,029 $ 73,450 add provision for income tax 28,306 10,159 18,867 48,445 add interest expense 2,136 2,488 2,953 4,980 subtract interest income (458 ) (980 ) (1,528 ) (2,513 ) add depreciation and amortization. 36,275 28,550 27,699 27,327 ebitda $ 112,312 $ 59,042 $ 80,020 $ 151,689 reconciliations of refinery operating information to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. per barrel sales, material cost, operating cost and margins are used by management and others to compare refinery performance to other companies in the industry. refinery gross margin is the difference between net sales price per barrel and raw material costs per barrel of produced refined products. net cash operating margin is the difference between refinery gross margin per barrel and refinery operating cost per barrel. other companies may not calculate -43- table of contents margins in the same manner. per barrel sales, material cost, and operating cost of produced refined products can be reconciled to the company statement of income. refining segment sales can be calculated by taking the sum of produced refined products (or calculated on a refinery stand alone basis) times the average sales price per produced barrel sold and purchased refined products times the average sales price per purchased barrel sold, times the number of days in the period. refining segment costs of products sold would be calculated in the same manner. refining operating expenses would be calculated by taking the sum of produced refined products sold (or calculated on a refinery stand alone basis) times the average cash operating cost per barrel produced, times the number of days in the period. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. the average produced barrel per day net sales, raw material costs, and refinery operating cost are reconciled to sales and other revenue, cost of product sold, and operating expenses as follows: years ended december 31, fiscal years ended july 31, 2003 2002 2002 2001 navajo refinery sales of produced refined products (bpd) 62,570 64,270 59,830 62,620 average per produced barrel net sales $ 38.95 $ 32.38 $ 31.02 $ 39.89 raw material costs. 31.52 26.66 24.46 30.17 refinery gross margin 7.43 5.72 6.56 9.72 refinery operating expenses 3.24 2.70 2.84 2.92 net cash operating margin $ 4.19 $ 3.02 $ 3.72 $ 6.80 woods cross refinery sales of produced refined products (bpd) 22,480 (1) average per produced barrel net sales $ 40.91 raw material costs. 34.81 refinery gross margin 6.10 refinery operating expenses 3.92 net cash operating margin $ 2.18 montana refinery sales of produced refined products (bpd) 7,150 6,940 7,230 6,460 average per produced barrel net sales $ 35.80 $ 30.65 $ 30.38 $ 36.83 raw material costs 28.17 23.79 22.23 26.22 refinery gross margin 7.63 6.86 8.15 10.61 refinery operating expenses 5.85 5.67 5.55 5.84 net cash operating margin $ 1.78 $ 1.19 $ 2.60 $ 4.77 -44- table of contents years ended december 31, fiscal years ended july 31, 2003 2002 2002 2001 (in thousands, except barrel data) consolidated sales of produced refined products (bpd) 82,900 (1) 71,210 67,060 69,080 average per produced barrel net sales $ 38.99 $ 32.22 $ 30.95 $ 39.60 raw material costs 31.76 26.38 24.22 29.80 refinery gross margin 7.23 5.84 6.73 9.80 refinery operating expenses 3.58 2.99 3.13 3.19 net cash operating margin $ 3.65 $ 2.85 $ 3.60 $ 6.61 sales of produced refined products (bpd) 82,900 71,210 67,060 69,080 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 38.99 $ 32.22 $ 30.95 $ 39.60 average raw material costs per produced barrel sold $ 31.76 $ 26.38 $ 24.22 $ 29.80 average cash operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 3.58 $ 2.99 $ 3.13 $ 3.19 sales of purchased refined products (bpd) 12,520 8,970 9,360 7,920 average sales price per purchased barrel sold $ 42.22 $ 35.13 $ 32.33 $ 41.72 average cost per purchased barrel sold $ 41.73 $ 34.15 $ 30.98 $ 41.64 sales of all refined products (bpd) 95,420 80,180 76,420 77,000 average sales price per barrel sold $ 39.41 $ 32.54 $ 31.11 $ 39.82 average costs of products per barrel sold $ 33.07 $ 27.25 $ 25.04 $ 31.02 refined product sales $ 1,372,583 $ 952,306 $ 867,812 $ 1,119,141 other refining segment revenue 823 1,002 918 1,107 total refining segment revenue 1,373,406 953,308 868,730 1,120,248 pipeline transportation segment sales other revenues 21,030 19,078 18,588 18,454 corporate and other revenues and eliminations 8,808 1,303 1,588 3,428 sales and other revenues $ 1,403,244 $ 973,689 $ 888,906 $ 1,142,130 refining segment cost of products sold $ 1,151,772 $ 797,490 $ 698,530 $ 871,814 corporate and other costs and eliminations 4,086 (544 ) (285 ) (493 ) cost of products sold $ 1,155,858 $ 796,946 $ 698,245 $ 871,321 refinery operating expenses $ 108,188 $ 77,755 $ 76,565 $ 80,519 other refining segment operating expenses (2) 15,652 13,625 13,545 13,394 total refining segment operating expenses 123,840 91,380 90,110 93,913 pipeline transportation segment operating expenses 4,182 6,138 6,179 6,497 corporate and other costs and eliminations 3,023 281 operating expenses $ 131,045 $ 97,799 $ 96,289 $ 100,410 (1) the company purchased the woods cross, utah refinery from conocophillips on june 1, 2003. barrels per day for woods cross is calculated based on actual production of the plant since june 1, 2003 (4,810,453 bbls divided by 214 days equals 22,480 bpd). for annual consolidation purposes, the woods cross barrels per day is calculated over 365 days (4,810,453 bbls divided by 365 days equals 13,180 bpd). (2) represents refining segment expenses of product pipelines and terminals, principally relating to the marketing of products from the navajo refinery. -45- table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income plus (i) interest expense net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation, depletion and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda. years ended fiscal years ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 (in thousands) net income $ 83,879 $ 46,053 $ 32,029 $ 73,450 $ 5,403 $ 18,607 add provision for income tax 54,590 28,306 18,867 48,445 3,114 11,822 add interest expense 3,524 2,136 2,953 4,980 1,014 1,479 subtract interest income (4,372 ) (458 ) (1,528 ) (2,513 ) (415 ) (963 ) add depreciation and amortization 40,481 36,275 27,699 27,327 11,726 10,875 ebitda $ 178,102 $ 112,312 $ 80,020 $ 151,689 $ 20,842 $ 41,820 reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. we calculate refinery gross margin and net operating margin using net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold. these two margins do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our statement of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. -51- table of contents refinery gross margin refinery gross margin per barrel is the difference between average net sales price and average cost of products per barrel of produced refined products. refinery gross margin for each of our refineries and for all of our refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended fiscal years ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery net sales $ 51.42 $ 38.95 $ 31.02 $ 39.89 $ 34.93 $ 31.75 less cost of products 41.26 31.52 24.46 30.17 29.44 23.92 refinery gross margin $ 10.16 $ 7.43 $ 6.56 $ 9.72 $ 5.49 $ 7.83 woods cross refinery (1) net sales $ 51.33 $ 40.91 less cost of products 45.33 34.81 refinery gross margin $ 6.00 $ 6.10 montana refinery net sales $ 43.10 $ 35.80 $ 30.38 $ 36.83 $ 32.18 $ 31.44 less cost of products 35.37 28.17 22.23 26.22 26.01 22.36 refinery gross margin $ 7.73 $ 7.63 $ 8.15 $ 10.61 $ 6.17 $ 9.08 consolidated net sales $ 50.80 $ 38.99 $ 30.95 $ 39.60 $ 34.65 $ 31.71 less cost of products 41.70 31.76 24.22 29.80 29.10 23.72 refinery gross margin $ 9.10 $ 7.23 $ 6.73 $ 9.80 $ 5.55 $ 7.99 (1) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only since the purchase date. net operating margin net operating margin per barrel is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel of produced refined products. net operating margin for each of our refineries and for all of our refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended fiscal year ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery refinery gross margin $ 10.16 $ 7.43 $ 6.56 $ 9.72 $ 5.49 $ 7.83 less refinery operating expenses 3.20 3.24 2.84 2.92 2.81 3.20 net operating margin $ 6.96 $ 4.19 $ 3.72 $ 6.80 $ 2.68 $ 4.63 woods cross refinery (1) refinery gross margin $ 6.00 $ 6.10 less refinery operating expenses 3.92 3.92 net operating margin $ 2.08 $ 2.18 montana refinery refinery gross margin $ 7.73 $ 7.63 $ 8.15 $ 10.61 $ 6.17 $ 9.08 less refinery operating expenses 5.64 5.85 5.55 5.84 5.51 5.23 net operating margin $ 2.09 $ 1.78 $ 2.60 $ 4.77 $ 0.66 $ 3.85 -52- table of contents years ended fiscal year ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 average per produced barrel: consolidated refinery gross margin $ 9.10 $ 7.23 $ 6.73 $ 9.80 $ 5.55 $ 7.99 less refinery operating expenses 3.53 3.58 3.13 3.19 3.09 3.47 net operating margin $ 5.57 $ 3.65 $ 3.60 $ 6.61 $ 2.46 $ 4.52 (1) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only since the purchase date. below are reconciliations to our statement of income for (i) net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold, and (ii) net operating margin and refinery gross margin. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. reconciliations of refined product sales from produced products sold to total sales and other revenue years ended fiscal year ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 navajo refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 51.42 $ 38.95 $ 31.02 $ 39.89 $ 34.93 $ 31.75 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 78,880 62,570 59,830 62,620 63,400 52,820 times number of days in period 366 365 365 365 153 153 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 1,484,500 $ 889,542 $ 677,413 $ 911,738 $ 338,828 $ 256,586 woods cross refinery (1) average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 51.33 $ 40.91 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 23,520 22,480 times number of days in period 366 214 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 441,865 $ 196,807 montana refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 43.10 $ 35.80 $ 30.38 $ 36.83 $ 32.18 $ 31.44 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 7,970 7,150 7,230 6,460 7,080 7,760 times number of days in period 366 365 365 365 153 153 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 125,724 $ 93,429 $ 80,171 $ 86,841 $ 34,859 $ 37,328 -53- table of contents years ended fiscal year ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 sum of refined product sales from produced products sold from our three refineries (3) $ 2,052,089 $ 1,179,778 $ 757,584 $ 998,579 $ 373,687 $ 293,914 add refined product sales from purchased products sold and rounding (2) 167,422 192,805 110,228 120,255 65,700 61,400 total refined products sales 2,219,511 1,372,583 867,812 1,118,834 439,387 355,314 add other refining segment revenue 1,474 823 918 1,414 401 94 total refining segment revenue 2,220,985 1,373,406 868,730 1,120,248 439,788 355,408 add pipeline transportation segment sales other revenue 23,977 21,030 18,588 18,454 8,245 7,623 add corporate and other revenues and eliminations 1,411 8,808 1,588 3,428 604 823 sales and other revenues $ 2,246,373 $ 1,403,244 $ 888,906 $ 1,142,130 $ 448,637 $ 363,854 (1) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only since the purchase date. (2) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments where we choose to redirect produced products to more profitable markets. (3) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended fiscal year ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 average sales prices per produced barrel sold $ 50.80 $ 38.99 $ 30.95 $ 39.60 $ 34.65 $ 31.71 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 110,370 82,900 67,060 69,080 70,490 60,580 times number of days in period 366 365 365 365 153 153 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 2,052,089 $ 1,179,778 $ 757,584 $ 998,579 $ 373,687 $ 293,914 reconciliation of average cost of products per produced barrel sold to total costs of products sold years ended fiscal year ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 navajo refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 41.26 $ 31.52 $ 24.46 $ 30.17 $ 29.44 $ 23.92 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 78,880 62,570 59,830 62,620 63,400 52,820 times number of days in period. 366 365 365 365 153 153 cost of products for produced products sold $ 1,191,180 $ 719,855 $ 534,156 $ 689,575 $ 285,574 $ 193,309 -54- table of contents years ended fiscal year ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 woods cross refinery (1) average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 45.33 $ 34.81 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 23,520 22,480 times number of days in period 366 214 cost of products for produced products sold $ 390,215 $ 167,461 montana refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 35.37 $ 28.17 $ 22.23 $ 26.22 $ 26.01 $ 22.36 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 7,970 7,150 7,230 6,460 7,080 7,760 times number of days in period 366 365 365 365 153 153 cost of products for produced products sold $ 103,175 $ 73,517 $ 58,664 $ 61,824 $ 28,175 $ 26,548 sum of cost of products for produced products sold from our three refineries (3) . $ 1,684,570 $ 960,833 $ 592,820 $ 751,399 $ 313,749 $ 219,857 add refined product costs from purchased products sold and rounding (2) 169,849 190,939 105,710 120,415 63,966 59,105 subtract eliminations with hep (17,917 ) total refining segment costs of products sold 1,836,502 1,151,772 698,530 871,814 377,715 278,962 add (subtract) corporate and other costs and eliminations (505 ) 4,086 (285 ) (493 ) (177 ) (125 ) costs of products sold $ 1,835,997 $ 1,155,858 $ 698,245 $ 871,321 $ 377,538 $ 278,837 (1) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only since the purchase date. (2) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments where we choose to redirect produced products to more profitable markets. (3) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended fiscal year ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 average cost of products per produced barrel sold. $ 41.70 $ 31.76 $ 24.22 $ 29.80 $ 29.10 $ 23.72 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 110,370 82,900 67,060 69,080 70,490 60,580 times number of days in period 366 365 365 365 153 153 cost of products for produced products sold $ 1,684,570 $ 960,833 $ 592,820 $ 751,399 $ 313,749 $ 219,857 -55- table of contents reconciliation of average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended fiscal years ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 navajo refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 3.20 $ 3.24 $ 2.84 $ 2.92 $ 2.81 $ 3.20 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 78,880 62,570 59,830 62,620 63,400 52,820 times number of days in period 366 365 365 365 153 153 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 92,384 $ 73,995 $ 62,020 $ 66,740 $ 27,258 $ 25,861 woods cross refinery (1) average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 3.92 $ 3.92 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 23,520 22,480 times number of days in period 366 214 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 33,745 $ 18,858 montana refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 5.64 $ 5.85 $ 5.55 $ 5.84 $ 5.51 $ 5.23 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 7,970 7,150 7,230 6,460 7,080 7,760 times number of days in period 366 365 365 365 153 153 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 16,452 $ 15,267 $ 14,646 $ 13,770 $ 5,969 $ 6,209 sum of refinery operating expenses per produced products sold from our three refineries (2) $ 142,581 $ 108,120 $ 76,666 $ 80,510 $ 33,227 $ 32,070 add other refining segment operating expenses and rounding 21,137 15,720 13,444 13,013 5,589 5,475 total refining segment operating expenses 163,718 123,840 90,110 93,523 38,816 37,545 add pipeline transportation segment operating expenses 4,380 4,182 6,179 6,501 2,750 2,792 add corporate and other costs and eliminations 166 3,023 386 operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation, depletion and amortization) $ 168,264 $ 131,045 $ 96,289 $ 100,410 $ 41,566 $ 40,337 (1) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only since the purchase date. (2) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. -56- table of contents years ended fiscal years ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 3.53 $ 3.58 $ 3.13 $ 3.19 $ 3.09 $ 3.47 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 110,370 82,900 67,060 69,080 70,490 60,580 times number of days in period 366 365 365 365 153 153 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 142,581 $ 108,120 $ 76,666 $ 80,510 $ 33,227 $ 32,070 reconciliation of net operating margin per barrel to refinery gross margin per barrel to total sales and other revenues years ended fiscal years ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 navajo refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 6.96 $ 4.19 $ 3.72 $ 6.80 $ 2.68 $ 4.63 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 3.20 3.24 2.84 2.92 2.81 3.20 refinery gross margin per barrel 10.16 7.43 6.56 9.72 5.49 7.83 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 41.26 31.52 24.46 30.17 29.44 23.92 average net sales per produced barrel sold $ 51.42 $ 38.95 $ 31.02 $ 39.89 $ 34.93 $ 31.75 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 78,880 62,570 59,830 62,620 63,400 52,820 times number of days in period 366 365 365 365 153 153 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 1,484,500 $ 889,542 $ 677,413 $ 911,738 $ 338,828 $ 256,586 woods cross refinery (1) net operating margin per barrel $ 2.08 $ 2.18 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 3.92 3.92 refinery gross margin per barrel 6.00 6.10 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 45.33 34.81 average net sales per produced barrel sold $ 51.33 $ 40.91 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 23,520 22,480 times number of days in period 366 214 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 441,865 $ 196,807 -57- table of contents years ended fiscal years ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 montana refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 2.09 $ 1.78 $ 2.60 $ 4.77 $ 0.66 $ 3.85 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 5.64 5.85 5.55 5.84 5.51 5.23 refinery gross margin per barrel 7.73 7.63 8.15 10.61 6.17 9.08 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 35.37 28.17 22.23 26.22 26.01 22.36 average net sales per produced barrel sold $ 43.10 $ 35.80 $ 30.38 $ 36.83 $ 32.18 $ 31.44 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 7,970 7,150 7,230 6,460 7,080 7,760 times number of days in period 366 365 365 365 153 153 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 125,724 $ 93,429 $ 80,171 $ 86,841 $ 34,859 $ 37,328 sum of refined product sales from purchased products sold from our three refineries (3) $ 2,052,089 $ 1,179,778 $ 757,584 $ 998,579 $ 373,687 $ 293,914 add refined product sales from purchased products sold and rounding (2) 167,422 192,805 110,228 120,255 65,700 61,400 total refined product sales 2,219,511 1,372,583 867,812 1,118,834 439,387 355,314 add other refining segment revenue 1,474 823 918 1,414 401 94 total refining segment revenue 2,220,985 1,373,406 868,730 1,120,248 439,788 355,408 add pipeline transportation segment sales other revenues 23,977 21,030 18,588 18,454 8,245 7,623 add corporate and other revenues and eliminations 1,411 8,808 1,588 3,428 604 823 sales and other revenues $ 2,246,373 $ 1,403,244 $ 888,906 $ 1,142,130 $ 448,637 $ 363,854 (1) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only since the purchase date. (2) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments where we choose to redirect produced products to more profitable markets. (3) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. -58- table of contents years ended fiscal years ended five months ended december 31, july 31, december 31, 2004 2003 2002 2001 2002 2001 net operating margin per barrel $ 5.57 $ 3.65 $ 3.60 $ 6.61 $ 2.46 $ 4.52 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 3.53 3.58 3.13 3.19 3.09 3.47 refinery gross margin per barrel 9.10 7.23 6.73 9.80 5.55 7.99 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 41.70 31.76 24.22 29.80 29.10 23.72 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 50.80 38.99 $ 30.95 $ 39.60 $ 34.65 $ 31.71 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 110,370 82,900 67,060 69,080 70,490 60,580 times number of days in period 366 365 365 365 153 153 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 2,052,089 $ 1,179,778 $ 757,584 $ 998,579 $ 373,687 $ 293,914 -59- table of contentsall forward-looking statements included in this form 10-k and all subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. the forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and, other than as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. -3- table of contents definitions within this report, the following terms have these specific meanings: alkylation means the reaction of propylene or butylene (olefins) with isobutane to form an iso-paraffinic gasoline (inverse of cracking). bpd means the number of barrels per day of crude oil or petroleum products. bpsd means the number of barrels per stream day (barrels of capacity in a 24 hour period) of crude oil or petroleum products. catalytic reforming means a refinery process which uses a precious metal (such as platinum) based catalyst to convert low octane naphtha fractionated directly from crude oil to high octane gasoline blendstock and hydrogen. the hydrogen produced from the reforming process is used to desulfurize other refinery oils and is the main source of hydrogen for the refinery. cracking means the process of breaking down larger, heavier and more complex hydrocarbon molecules into simpler and lighter molecules. crude distillation means the process of distilling vapor from liquid crudes, usually by heating, and condensing slightly above atmospheric pressure the vapor back to liquid in order to purify, fractionate or form the desired products. ethanol means a high octane gasoline blend stock that is used to make various grades of gasoline. fcc, or fluid catalytic cracking, means the breaking down of large, complex hydrocarbon molecules into smaller, more useful ones by the application of heat, pressure and a chemical (catalyst) to speed the process. hydrodesulfurization means to remove sulfur and nitrogen compounds from oil or gas in the presence of hydrogen and a catalyst at relatively high temperatures. hf alkylation, or hydrofluoric alkylation, means a refinery process which combines isobutane and c3/c4 olefins using hf acid as a catalyst to make high octane gasoline blend stock. isomerization means a refinery process for converting c5/c6 gasoline compounds into their isomers, i.e., rearranging the structure of the molecules without changing their size or chemical composition. lpg means liquid petroleum gases. lsg or low sulfur gasoline, means gasoline that contains less than 30 ppm of total sulfur. mmbtu or one million british thermal units, means for each unit, the amount of heat required to raise one pound of water one degree fahrenheit at one atmosphere pressure. mtbe means methyl tertiary butyl ether, a high octane gasoline blend stock that is used to make various grades of gasoline. natural gasoline means a low octane gasoline blend stock that is purchased and used to blend with other high octane stocks produced to make various grades of gasoline. ppm means parts-per-million. refining gross margin or refinery gross margin means the difference between average net sales price and average costs of products per barrel of produced refined products. this does not include the associated depreciation, depletion and amortization costs. -4- table of contents reforming means the process of converting gasoline type molecules into aromatic, higher octane gasoline blend stocks while producing hydrogen in the process. solvent deasphalter / residuum oil supercritical extraction ( rose ) means a refinery process that uses a light hydrocarbon like propane or butane to extract non asphaltene heavy oils from asphalt or atmospheric reduced crude. these deasphalted oils are then further converted to gasoline and diesel in the fcc process. the remaining asphaltenes are either sold, blended to fuel oil or blended with other asphalt as a hardener. sour crude oil means crude oil containing quantities of sulfur greater than 0.4 percent by weight, while sweet crude oil means crude oil containing quantities of sulfur less than 0.4 percent by weight. ulsd or ultra low sulfur diesel, means diesel fuel that contains less than 15 ppm of total sulfur. vacuum distillation means the process of distilling vapor from liquid crudes, usually by heating, and condensing below atmospheric pressure the vapor back to liquid in order to purify, fractionate or form the desired products. -5- table of contents index to defined terms and names the following other terms and names that appear in this form 10-k are defined on the following pages: page reference alon 11 ars 43 caa 21 carb 14 cercla 22 connacher 8 consent agreement 21 cwa 22 desc 14 ebitda 37 epa 14 exchange act 98 fasb 7 ferc 29 fin 7 fina 20 frontier 35 hep 7 hep ipa 19 hep pta 18 hep senior notes 41 koch 11 leased pipeline 13 longhorn partners 12 lifo 39 mact 16 magellan 12 montana refinery 8 mrc 29 navajo refinery 7 npdes 22 order 35 pemex 9 plains 13 rcra 22 rio grande 7 sec 7 sdwa 22 sfas 41 sfpp 11 vcu 29 vie 34 vrdn 43 woods cross refinery 7 terms used in the financial statements and footnotes are as defined therein. -6- table of contents items 1 and 2. business and properties company overview references herein to holly corporation include holly corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. in accordance with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) plain english guidelines, this annual report on form 10-k has been written in the first person. in this document, the words we , our , ours and us refer only to holly corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries or to holly corporation or an individual subsidiary and not to any other person. we are principally an independent petroleum refiner which produces high value light products such as gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel. we were incorporated in delaware in 1947 and maintain our principal corporate offices at 100 crescent court, suite 1600, dallas, texas 75201-6927. our telephone number is 214-871-3555 and our internet website address is www.hollycorp.com . the information contained on our website does not constitute part of this annual report on form 10-k. a copy of this annual report on form 10-k will be provided without charge upon written request to the vice president, investor relations at the above address. a direct link to our filings at the sec web site is available on our website on the investors page. also available on our website are copies of our corporate governance guidelines, audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, nominating / corporate governance committee charter and code of business conduct and ethics, all of which will be provided without charge upon written request to the vice president, investor relations at the above address. our code of business conduct and ethics applies to all of our officers, employees and directors, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. on april 26, 2004, our stock began trading on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol hoc . our stock formerly traded on the american stock exchange. in july 2004, we completed the initial public offering of limited partnership interests in holly energy partners, l.p. ( hep ); a delaware limited partnership that also trades on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol hep . hep was formed to acquire, own and operate substantially all of the refined product pipeline and terminalling assets that support our refining and marketing operations in west texas, new mexico, utah and arizona and a 70% interest in rio grande pipeline company ( rio grande ). we initially consolidated the results of hep and showed the interest we did not own as a minority interest in ownership and earnings. on july 8, 2005, we closed on a transaction for hep to acquire our two 65-mile parallel intermediate feedstock pipelines which connect our lovington and artesia, new mexico facilities, which reduced our ownership interest in hep to 45.0%. under the provision of the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) interpretation no. ( fin ) 46 (revised), consolidation of variable interest entities, we deconsolidated hep effective july 1, 2005. the deconsolidation has been presented from july 1, 2005 forward and our share of the earnings of hep from july 1, 2005 is reported using the equity method of accounting. as of december 31, 2005, we: owned and operated three refineries consisting of a petroleum refinery in artesia, new mexico that is operated in conjunction with crude oil distillation and vacuum distillation and other facilities situated 65 miles away in lovington, new mexico (collectively known as the navajo refinery ), and refineries in woods cross, utah and great falls, montana; owned approximately 800 miles of crude oil pipelines located principally in west texas and new mexico; owned 100% of nk asphalt partners which manufactures and markets asphalt products from various terminals in arizona and new mexico and does business under the name of holly asphalt company; and owned a 45.0% interest in hep (which includes our 2.0% general partnership interest), which has logistics assets including approximately 1,400 miles of petroleum product pipelines located in texas, new mexico and oklahoma (including 340 miles of leased pipeline); eleven refined product terminals; two refinery truck rack facilities, a refined products tank farm facility and a 70% interest in rio grande. navajo refining company, l.p., one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, owns the navajo refinery. the navajo refinery has a crude capacity of 75,000 bpsd, can process sour crude oils and serves markets in the southwestern united states and northern mexico. in june 2003, we acquired the woods cross refining facility from conocophillips. the woods cross refinery ( woods cross refinery ), located just north of salt lake city, has a crude capacity of 26,000 bpsd and is operated by holly refining marketing company woods cross, one of -7- table of contents our wholly-owned subsidiaries. this facility is a high conversion refinery that processes regional sweet and canadian sour crude oils. we also own montana refining company, which owns an 8,000 bpsd petroleum refinery in great falls, montana ( montana refinery ), which processes primarily canadian sour crude oils and which primarily serves markets in montana. in conjunction with the refining operations, we own approximately 800 miles of pipelines that serve primarily as the supply network for our refineries. as announced on march 2, 2006, we have entered into a definitive agreement with connacher oil and gas limited ( connacher ) for the sale of the montana refinery. the purchase price for the assets including inventories is estimated at approximately $55 million, subject to certain closing adjustments, and includes 1,000,000 shares of connacher common stock currently valued at approximately $4 million. the consummation of the sale is subject to certain conditions, and we expect the closing to occur on or before april 1, 2006. the amount recorded on our balance sheet at december 31, 2005 for the net assets scheduled to be sold under the definitive agreement is approximately $20 million. our operations are currently organized into one business division, refining. the refining business division includes the navajo refinery, woods cross refinery, montana refinery and nk asphalt partners. prior to our deconsolidation of hep on july 1, 2005 our operations were organized into two business divisions, which were refining and hep. our operations that are not included in either the refining or hep (prior to its deconsolidation) business divisions include the operations of holly corporation, the parent company, a small-scale oil and gas exploration and production program, and prior to the deconsolidation of hep, the elimination of the revenue and costs associated with hep pipeline transportation services for us as well as the recognition of the minority interests income of hep. refinery operations our refinery operations include the navajo refinery, the woods cross refinery and the montana refinery. the following table sets forth information about our combined refinery operations, including non-gaap performance measures for our refinery operations. the cost of products and refinery gross margin do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a under part ii of this form 10-k. information regarding our individual refineries is provided under operating data refining operations in item 7 of this form 10-k. years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 (8) consolidated crude charge (bpd) (1) 103,840 102,230 76,040 refinery production (bpd) (2) 114,410 111,070 85,030 sales of produced refined products (bpd) 114,900 110,370 82,900 sales of refined products (bpd) (3) 125,680 118,760 95,420 refinery utilization (4) 95.3 % 94.7 % 93.2 % average per produced barrel (5) net sales $ 67.99 $ 50.80 $ 38.99 cost of products (6) 55.53 41.70 31.76 refinery gross margin 12.46 9.10 7.23 refinery operating expenses (7) 4.30 3.53 3.58 net operating margin $ 8.16 $ 5.57 $ 3.65 feedstocks: sour crude oil 68 % 67 % 66 % sweet crude oil 20 % 23 % 23 % other feedstocks and blends 12 % 10 % 11 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % -8- table of contents (1) crude charge represents the barrels per day of crude oil processed at our refineries. (2) refinery production represents the barrels per day of refined products yielded from processing crude and other feedstocks at our refineries. (3) includes refined products purchased for resale. (4) represents crude charge divided by total crude capacity (bpsd). (5) represents average per barrel amounts for produced refined products sold, which are non-gaap. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a under part ii of this form 10-k. (6) subsequent to the formation of hep, transportation costs billed from hep are included in cost of products. (7) represents operating expenses of our refineries, exclusive of depreciation, depletion, and amortization, and excludes refining segment expenses of product pipelines and terminals. (8) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003, and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only for periods since the purchase date. the petroleum refining business is highly competitive. among our competitors are some of the world largest integrated petroleum companies, which have their own crude oil supplies and distribution and marketing systems. we also compete with other independent refiners. competition in a particular geographic area is affected primarily by the amount of refined products produced by refineries located in that area and by the availability of refined products and the cost of transportation to that area from refineries located outside the area. projects have been explored from time to time by refiners and other entities which projects, if completed, could result in further increases in the supply of products to some or all of our markets. in recent years, there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between competitors in our geographic markets. these transactions could increase future competitive pressures on us. set forth below is information regarding our principal products. years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 consolidated sales of produced refined products: gasolines 58 % 58 % 57 % diesel fuels 26 % 27 % 23 % jet fuels 4 % 4 % 8 % asphalt 7 % 7 % 8 % lpg and other 5 % 4 % 4 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % we have several significant customers, none of which account for more than 10% of our business. our principal customers for gasoline include other refiners, convenience store chains, independent marketers, an affiliate of petr leos mexicanos ( pemex ), the government-owned energy company of mexico, and retailers. diesel fuel is sold to other refiners, truck stop chains, wholesalers and railroads. jet fuel is sold primarily for military use. asphalt is sold to governmental entities or contractors. carbon black oil is sold for further processing, and lpg are sold to lpg wholesalers and lpg retailers. loss of, or reduction in amounts purchased by, our major customers that purchase for their retail operations could have an adverse effect on us to the extent that, because of market limitations or transportation constraints, we are not able to correspondingly increase sales to other purchasers. we believe that the availability of significant capacity in hep pipeline transportation system to the albuquerque area and northern new mexico increases our flexibility in the event of the loss of a major current purchaser of products for retail sales. in order to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually enter into contracts for new crude oil supplies. the primary factors affecting our ability to contract for new crude oil supplies are our ability to connect new supplies of crude oil to our gathering systems or to our other crude oil receiving lines, our success in contracting for and receiving existing crude oil supplies that are currently being purchased by other refineries and the level of drilling activity near our gathering systems or our other crude oil receiving lines. -9- table of contents navajo refinery facilities the navajo refinery has a crude oil capacity of 75,000 bpsd and has the ability to process sour crude oils into high value light products (such as gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel). the navajo refinery converts approximately 90% of its raw materials throughput into high value light products. for 2005, gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel (excluding volumes purchased for resale) represented 59%, 27% and 4%, respectively, of the navajo refinery sales volumes. the following table sets forth information about the navajo refinery operations, including non-gaap performance measures. the cost of products and refinery gross margin do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a under part ii of the form 10-k. years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 navajo refinery crude charge (bpd) (1) 71,850 71,060 56,080 refinery production (bpd) (2) 80,190 79,330 63,680 sales of produced refined products (bpd) 80,110 78,880 62,570 sales of refined products (bpd) (3) 89,400 86,410 74,500 refinery utilization (4) 95.8 % 94.7 % 93.5 % average per produced barrel (5) net sales $ 69.11 $ 51.42 $ 38.95 cost of products (6) 55.50 41.26 31.52 refinery gross margin 13.61 10.16 7.43 refinery operating expenses (7) 3.94 3.20 3.24 net operating margin $ 9.67 $ 6.96 $ 4.19 feedstocks: sour crude oil 85 % 83 % 78 % sweet crude oil 2 % 5 % 10 % other feedstocks and blends 13 % 12 % 12 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) crude charge represents the barrels per day of crude oil processed at the refinery. (2) refinery production represents the barrels per day of refined products yielded from processing crude and other feedstocks at the refinery. (3) includes refined products purchased for resale. (4) represents crude charge divided by total crude capacity (bpsd). (5) represents average per barrel amounts for produced refined products sold, which are non-gaap. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are located under reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. (6) subsequent to the formation of hep, transportation costs billed from hep are included in cost of products. (7) represents operating expenses of the refinery, exclusive of depreciation, depletion, and amortization and excludes refining segment expenses of product pipelines and terminals. navajo refining artesia, new mexico facility is located on a 410 acre site and is a fully integrated refinery with crude distillation, vacuum distillation, fcc, rose (solvent deasphalter), hf alkylation, catalytic reforming, hydrodesulfurization, isomerization, sulfur recovery and product blending units. other supporting infrastructure includes approximately 1.8 million barrels of feedstock and product tankage at the site, maintenance shops, warehouses and office buildings. the operating units at the artesia facility include newly constructed units, older units that have been relocated from other facilities and upgraded and re-erected in artesia, and units that have been operating as part of the artesia facility (with periodic major maintenance) for many years, in some very limited cases since before 1970. the artesia facility is operated in conjunction with an integrated refining facility located in lovington, new mexico, approximately 65 miles east of artesia. the principal equipment at the lovington facility consists of a crude distillation and associated vacuum distillation units which were originally constructed after 1970. the facility also has an additional 1.0 million barrels of feedstock and product tankage. the lovington facility -10- table of contents processes crude oil into intermediate products, which are transported to artesia by means of two intermediate pipelines owned by hep and which are then upgraded into finished products at the artesia facility. the combined crude oil capacity of the two facilities is 75,000 bpsd and typically processes or blends an additional 10,000 bpsd of natural gasoline, butane, gas oil and naphtha. we have approximately 800 miles of crude gathering pipelines transporting crude oil to the artesia and lovington facilities from various points in southeastern new mexico and west texas, 66 crude oil trucks and 67 trailers in addition to over 600 , 000 barrels of related tankage. we distribute refined products from the navajo refinery to markets in arizona, new mexico and west texas primarily through two of hep owned pipelines that extend from artesia to el paso, texas. in addition, we use a pipeline leased by hep to transport petroleum products to markets in central and northwest new mexico. we have refined product storage through our pipelines and terminals agreement with hep at terminals in el paso, texas; tucson, arizona; and albuquerque, artesia, moriarty and bloomfield, new mexico. in 2000, we formed a joint venture, nk asphalt partners, with a subsidiary of koch materials company ( koch ) to manufacture and market asphalt and asphalt products in arizona and new mexico under the name koch asphalt solutions southwest. we contributed our asphalt terminal and asphalt blending and modification assets in arizona to nk asphalt partners and koch contributed its new mexico and arizona asphalt manufacturing and marketing assets to nk asphalt partners. on january 1, 2002, we sold a 1% equity interest in nk asphalt partners to koch thereby reducing our equity interest from 50% to 49%. in february 2005, we purchased the 51% interest owned by koch in nk asphalt partners for $16.9 million plus working capital of approximately $5 million. this purchase increased our ownership in nk asphalt partners from 49% to 100%. following the purchase of the 51% interest from koch, nk asphalt partners does business under the name holly asphalt company. markets and competition the navajo refinery primarily serves the growing southwestern united states market, including el paso, texas; albuquerque, moriarty and bloomfield, new mexico; phoenix and tucson, arizona; and the northern mexico market. our products are shipped through hep pipelines from artesia, new mexico to el paso, texas and from el paso to albuquerque and to mexico via products pipeline systems owned by chevron pipeline company and from el paso to tucson and phoenix via a products pipeline system owned by kinder morgan sfpp, l.p. ( sfpp ). in addition, the navajo refinery transports petroleum products to markets in northwest new mexico and to moriarty, new mexico, near albuquerque, via hep leased pipeline running from chaves county to san juan county, new mexico. the el paso market a majority of the light products of the navajo refinery (i.e. products other than asphalt, lpg and carbon black oil) are currently shipped to el paso on pipelines that hep owns and operates. of the products shipped to el paso, most are subsequently shipped (either by us or by purchasers of our products) via common carrier pipelines to tucson and phoenix, arizona. a smaller percentage of our light products is shipped to albuquerque, new mexico and markets in northern mexico via common carrier pipelines; the remaining products that are shipped to el paso are sold to wholesale customers primarily for ultimate retail sale in the el paso area. we expanded our capacity to supply el paso in 1996 when we replaced most of an 8-inch pipeline from orla to el paso, texas with a new 12-inch line, a portion of the throughput of which has been leased to alon usa lp ( alon ), owner of the fina brand, to transport refined products from the alon refinery in big spring, texas to el paso. hep currently receives monthly payments from alon with respect to the long term lease of this pipeline. the el paso market for refined products is currently supplied by a number of refiners that either are located in el paso or have pipeline access to el paso. these include the conocophillips and valero refineries in the texas panhandle and the western refinery in el paso. we currently supply approximately 54,000 bpd into the el paso market, 13,500 bpd of which are consumed in the local el paso market. since 1995, the volume of refined products transported by various suppliers via pipeline to el paso has substantially expanded, in part as a result of our own 12-inch pipeline expansion described above and primarily as a result of the completion in november 1995 of the valero l.p. 10-inch pipeline running 408 miles from the valero refinery near mckee, texas to el paso. the capacity of this pipeline (in which conocophillips now owns a one-third interest) is currently 60,000 bpd. we -11- table of contents believe that demand in the el paso market and more importantly the larger arizona markets served through el paso will continue to grow. until 1998, the el paso market and markets served from el paso were generally not supplied by refined products produced by the large refineries on the texas gulf coast. while wholesale prices of refined products on the gulf coast have historically been lower than prices in el paso, distances from the gulf coast to el paso (more than 700 miles by the most direct route) have made transportation by truck unfeasible and would require substantial investment to develop refined products pipelines from the gulf coast to el paso. in 1998, a texaco, inc. subsidiary converted an existing 16-inch crude oil pipeline that runs from the gulf coast to midland, texas along a northern route through corsicana, texas to refined products service. this pipeline, now owned by magellan midstream partners, l.p. ( magellan ), is linked to a 6-inch pipeline, also owned by magellan, that can transport to el paso approximately 18,000 to 20,000 bpd of refined products produced on the texas gulf coast (this capacity had previously been used to transport volumes produced by a shell oil company refinery in odessa, texas, which was shut down in 1998). the magellan pipeline from the gulf coast to midland has the potential to link to existing or new pipelines running from the midland, texas area to el paso that could result in substantial additional volumes of refined products being transported from the gulf coast to el paso. the longhorn pipeline the longhorn pipeline, which is owned by longhorn partners pipeline, l.p. ( longhorn partners ), is a new source of pipeline transportation from gulf coast refineries to el paso. this pipeline is approximately 700 miles and runs from the houston area of the gulf coast to el paso, utilizing a direct route. longhorn partners has announced that it would use the pipeline initially to transport approximately 72,000 bpd of refined products from the gulf coast to el paso and markets served from el paso, with an ultimate maximum capacity of 225,000 bpd. since inception of longhorn pipeline operations in late 2005, it is our understanding that there have been some limited shipments (substantially under the 72,000 bpd rate) of refined products. although the longhorn pipeline has had very limited impact on us to date, if the longhorn pipeline is ever able to operate as has been proposed and significantly increases the volumes of refined products it transports, downward pressure on wholesale refined products margins in el paso and related markets could result. however, any effects on our markets in tucson and phoenix, arizona and albuquerque, new mexico would be expected to be limited in the near-term because current common carrier pipelines from el paso to these markets are now running at capacity and proration policies of these pipelines allocate only limited capacity to new shippers. although chevrontexaco has not announced any plans to expand their common carrier pipeline from el paso to albuquerque to address their capacity constraint, sfpp is currently expanding the capacity of its pipeline from el paso to the arizona market by between 45,000 and 50,000 bpd. sfpp has announced an expected completion date of april 2006 for this first expansion. additionally, sfpp announced a further planned expansion of the capacity of this pipeline from el paso to the arizona market by 23,000 bpd, with an expected completion date in the summer of 2007. although our results of operations might be adversely impacted by the longhorn pipeline and by the expansions of sfpp el paso-to-arizona pipeline, we are unable to predict at this time the extent to which we could be negatively affected. arizona and albuquerque markets we currently supply approximately 32,000 bpd of refined products into the arizona market, comprised primarily of phoenix and tucson, which accounts for approximately 14% of the refined products consumed in that market. we currently ship approximately 12,000 bpd of refined products into the albuquerque/moriarty market, which accounts for approximately 15% of the refined products consumed in that market. the common carrier pipelines used by us to serve the arizona and albuquerque markets are currently operated at or near capacity and are subject to proration. as a result, the volumes of refined products that we and other shippers have been able to deliver to these markets have been limited. the flow of additional products into el paso for shipment to arizona, either as a result of operation of the longhorn pipeline or otherwise, could further exacerbate such constraints on our deliveries to arizona. we could experience future constraints on our ability to deliver our products through the common carrier pipeline to arizona. any future constraints on our ability to transport our refined products to arizona could, if sustained, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as mentioned above, sfpp has announced plans to expand the capacity of its pipeline from el paso to the arizona market. this proposed expansion would permit us to ship additional refined products to markets in arizona, but pipeline tariffs would likely be higher and the expansion would also permit additional shipments by competing suppliers. we cannot presently predict the ultimate effects on us of sfpp proposed pipeline expansion. -12- table of contents the common carrier pipeline we use to serve the albuquerque market out of el paso currently operates at or near capacity with resulting limitations on the amount of refined products that we and other shippers can deliver. in addition, hep leases from enterprise products partners, l.p. a pipeline between artesia and the albuquerque vicinity and bloomfield, new mexico (the leased pipeline ). the lease agreement currently runs through 2007, and hep has options to renew for three ten-year periods. hep owns and operates a 12-inch pipeline from the navajo refinery to the leased pipeline as well as terminalling facilities in bloomfield, new mexico, which is located in the northwest corner of new mexico, and in moriarty, which is 40 miles east of albuquerque. these facilities permit us to provide a total of up to 45,000 bpd of light products to the growing albuquerque and santa fe, new mexico areas. if needed, additional pump stations could further increase the leased pipeline capabilities. an additional factor that could affect some of our markets is excess pipeline capacity from the west coast into our arizona markets. if refined products become available on the west coast in excess of demand in that market, additional products could be shipped into our arizona markets with resulting possible downward pressure on refined product prices in these markets. crude oil and feedstock supplies the navajo refinery is situated near the permian basin in an area which historically has had abundant supplies of crude oil available both for regional users, such as us, and for export to other areas. we purchase crude oil from producers in nearby southeastern new mexico and west texas and from major oil companies. crude oil is gathered both through our pipelines and tank trucks and through third party crude oil pipeline systems. in march 2003, we sold our iatan crude oil gathering system located in west texas to plains all-american pipeline, l.p. ( plains ) for a purchase price of $24.0 million in cash. in connection with the transaction, we have entered into a six and a half year agreement with plains that commits us to transport on that gathering system at an agreed upon tariff any crude oil we purchase in the relevant area of the iatan system. crude oil acquired in locations distant from the refinery is exchanged for crude oil that is transportable to the refinery. we also purchase crude oil from producers and other petroleum companies in excess of the needs of our refineries for resale to other purchasers or users of crude oil. see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 of this form 10-k for additional information. we also purchase isobutane, natural gasoline, and other feedstocks to supply the navajo refinery. in 2005, approximately 4,000 bpd of isobutane and 4,000 bpd of natural gasoline used in the navajo refinery operations were purchased from other oil companies in the region and shipped to the artesia refining facilities on hep 65-mile pipelines running from lovington to artesia. we also purchase vacuum gas oil from other oil companies for use as feedstock. principal products and customers set forth below is information regarding the principal products produced at the navajo refinery: years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 navajo refinery sales of produced refined products: gasolines 59 % 59 % 58 % diesel fuels 27 % 26 % 23 % jet fuels 4 % 5 % 9 % asphalt 6 % 6 % 7 % lpg and other 4 % 4 % 3 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % light products are shipped by product pipelines or are made available at various points by exchanges with others. light products are also made available to customers through truck loading facilities at the refinery and at terminals. our principal customers for gasoline include other refiners, convenience store chains, independent marketers, an affiliate of pemex and retailers. our gasoline produced at the navajo refinery is marketed in the southwestern united states, including the metropolitan areas of el paso, phoenix, albuquerque, bloomfield, and tucson, and in portions of northern mexico. the composition of gasoline differs, because of local regulatory requirements, depending on the area in which gasoline is to be sold. diesel fuel is sold to other refiners, truck stop chains, wholesalers, and railroads. jet fuel is sold primarily for military use. all asphalt produced at the navajo refinery -13- table of contents and third-party purchased asphalt is marketed through holly asphalt company to governmental entities or contractors. carbon black oil is sold for further processing, and lpg are sold to lpg wholesalers and lpg retailers. military jet fuel is sold to the defense energy support center, a part of the united states department of defense (the desc ), under a series of one-year contracts that can vary significantly from year to year. we sold approximately 3,300 bpd of jet fuel to the desc in 2005. we have had a military jet fuel supply contract with the united states government for each of the last 36 years. our size in terms of employees and refining capacity allows us to bid for military jet fuel sales contracts under a small business set-aside program. in september 2005, desc awarded us contracts for sales of military jet fuel for the period october 1, 2005 through september 30, 2006. our total contract award, which is subject to adjustment based on actual needs of the desc for military jet fuel, was approximately 79 million gallons as compared to the total award for the 2004-2005 contract year of approximately 63 million gallons. the loss of our military jet fuel contract with the united states government could have an adverse effect on our results of operations if alternate commercial jet fuel or additional diesel fuel sales could not be secured. capital improvement projects we have invested significant amounts in capital expenditures in recent years to expand and enhance the navajo refinery and expand our supply and distribution network. in december 2003, we completed a major expansion project at the navajo refinery that included the construction of a new gas oil hydrotreater unit and the expansion of the crude refining capacity from 60,000 bpsd to 75,000 bpsd. the total cost of the project was approximately $85 million, excluding capitalized interest. the gas oil hydrotreater enhances higher value light product yields and expands our ability to produce additional quantities of gasolines meeting the present california air resources board ( carb ) standards, which were adopted in our phoenix market for winter months beginning in late 2000, and enables us to meet the recently adopted environmental protection agency ( epa ) nationwide low-sulfur gasoline requirements that became effective in 2004 for all our gasolines. additionally, in fiscal 2001 we completed the construction of a new additional sulfur recovery unit, which is currently utilized to enhance sour crude processing capabilities and provide sufficient capacity to recover the additional extracted sulfur resulting from operations of the hydrotreater. contemporaneous with the hydrotreater project, we completed necessary modifications to several of the artesia and lovington processing units for the navajo refinery expansion, which increased crude oil refining capacity from 60,000 bpsd to 75,000 bpsd. in december 2005, we finished the installation of a refurbished 4,500 bpsd rose asphalt unit at the navajo refinery at a total cost of $17.1 million. this unit allows us to upgrade asphalt to higher valued gasoline and diesel. for the 2006 year, our capital budget for the navajo refinery totals $46.9 million for various refining improvement projects, not including the clean fuels / expansion project approved in prior years capital budgets, as discussed below. additionally, $5.1 million was approved in the 2006 capital budget for pipeline and other transportation related projects related to the navajo refinery operations. our clean fuels / expansion strategy for the navajo refinery calls for the expansion / conversion of the distillate hydrotreater to gas oil service, the conversion of the gas oil hydrotreater to ulsd service, the expansion of the continuous catalytic reformer, the conversion of the kerosene hydrotreater to naphtha service, and the installation of additional sulfur recovery capacity, which should allow us to produce ulsd by the june 2006 deadline. in addition, we plan to revamp our crude and vacuum units at artesia and lovington for improved energy conservation / product cutpoints and to install a 10 million standard cubic feet per day hydrogen plant, which will permit processing of up to 85,000 bpsd of crude. we estimate the total cost to complete the usld project and expansion of crude oil refining capacity to 85,000 bpsd to be approximately $71 million. in order to avoid additional unit downtime, we plan to phase in the crude expansion starting in the second quarter of 2006 with completion expected in the fourth quarter of 2007. an additional 100 ton per day sulfur recovery unit is planned for startup in the fourth quarter of 2007 at a cost of $25.8 million, which is included in the 2006 capital budget. -14- table of contents it is anticipated that these projects will also allow the navajo refinery, without significant additional investment, to comply with lsg specifications required by the end of 2010. woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 we acquired from conocophillips the woods cross refinery, located near salt lake city, utah, and related assets, including a refined products terminal in spokane, washington, and a 50% ownership interest in refined products terminals in boise and burley, idaho for an agreed price of $25.0 million plus inventory less obligations assumed. the purchase also included certain pipelines and other transportation assets used in connection with the refinery, 25 retail service stations located in utah and wyoming, and a 10-year exclusive license to market fuels under the phillips 66 brand in the states of utah, wyoming, idaho and montana. the total cash purchase price, including expenses and the $2.5 million deposit made in 2002, was $58.3 million. in accounting for the purchase, we recorded inventory of $35.5 million, property, plant and equipment of $25.6 million, intangible assets of $1.6 million and recorded a $4.4 million liability, principally for pension obligations. in august 2003, we sold the 25 retail service stations for $7.0 million, less our prorated share of property taxes and certain transaction expenses, plus $1.8 million for inventories, resulting in net cash proceeds of $8.5 million. we continue to supply the retail stations with fuel from our woods cross refinery under a long-term supply agreement. the woods cross refinery is being operated by holly refining marketing company woods cross, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries. beginning in january 2005 the crude oil capacity of the refinery was increased from 25,000 bpsd to 26,000 bpsd as a result of continued improvements and advancements at the refinery. the woods cross refinery is located in woods cross, utah and processes regional sweet and canadian sour crude oils into high value light products. the following table sets forth information about the woods cross refinery operations, including non-gaap performance measures about our refinery operations since it was acquired in june 2003. the cost of products and refinery gross margin do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a under part ii of this form 10-k. years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 (8) woods cross refinery crude charge (bpd) (1) 24,100 23,620 22,540 refinery production (bpd) (2) 25,850 23,730 23,870 sales of produced refined products (bpd) 26,390 23,520 22,480 sales of refined products (bpd) (3) 27,710 24,160 22,680 refinery utilization (4) 92.7 % 94.5 % 90.2 % average per produced barrel (5) net sales $ 69.13 $ 51.33 $ 40.91 cost of products (6) 59.51 45.33 34.81 refinery gross margin 9.62 6.00 6.10 refinery operating expenses (7) 4.61 3.92 3.92 net operating margin $ 5.01 $ 2.08 $ 2.18 feedstocks: sour crude oil 8 % 7 % 1 % sweet crude oil 82 % 88 % 94 % other feedstocks and blends 10 % 5 % 5 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) crude charge represents the barrels per day of crude oil processed at the refinery. (2) refinery production represents the barrels per day of refined products yielded from processing crude and other feedstocks at the refinery. (3) includes refined products purchased for resale. (4) represents crude charge divided by total crude capacity (bpsd). -15- table of contents (5) represents average per barrel amounts for produced refined products sold, which are non-gaap. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are located under reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. (6) subsequent to the formation of hep, transportation costs billed from hep are included in cost of products. (7) represents operating expenses of our refinery, exclusive of depreciation, depletion, and amortization, and excludes refining segment expenses of product pipelines and terminals. (8) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003, and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only for periods since the purchase date. the woods cross refinery facility is located on a 200 acre site and is a fully integrated refinery with crude distillation, solvent deasphalter, fcc, hf alkylation, catalytic reforming, hydrodesulfurization, isomerization, sulfur recovery, and product blending units. other supporting infrastructure includes approximately 1.5 million barrels of feedstock and product tankage, maintenance shops, warehouses and office buildings. the operating units at the woods cross facility include newly constructed units, older units that have been relocated from other facilities, upgraded and re-erected in woods cross, and units that have been operating as part of the woods cross facility (with periodic major maintenance) for many years, in some very limited cases since before 1950. the crude oil capacity of the woods cross facility is 26,000 bpsd and the facility typically processes or blends an additional 2,000 bpsd of natural gasoline, butane, and gas oil. the woods cross refinery currently obtains its supply of crude oil primarily from suppliers in canada, wyoming, utah and colorado via common carrier pipelines, which originate in canada, wyoming and colorado. its primary markets include utah, idaho and wyoming where it distributes its products largely through a network of phillips 66 branded marketers. the majority of the light refined products produced at the woods cross refinery currently are delivered to customers in the salt lake city area. remaining volumes are shipped via pipelines owned by chevrontexaco corporation to numerous terminals, including hep terminals at boise and burley, idaho and spokane, washington. the woods cross refinery is one of five refineries located in utah. we estimate that the four refineries that compete with the woods cross refinery have a combined capacity to process approximately 140,000 bpd of crude oil. the five utah refineries collectively supply an estimated 70% of the gasoline and distillate products consumed in the states of utah and idaho, with the remainder imported from refineries in wyoming and montana via the pioneer pipeline owned jointly by sinclair and conocophillips. set forth below is information regarding the principal products produced at the woods cross refinery since our acquisition in june 2003. years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 woods cross refinery sales of produced refined products: gasolines 60 % 59 % 62 % diesel fuels 29 % 31 % 26 % jet fuels 2 % 1 % 3 % fuel oils 7 % 7 % 7 % lpg and other 2 % 2 % 2 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % for the 2006 year, our capital budget for the woods cross refinery totals $4.7 million for various refining improvement projects, not including the clean fuels project approved in prior years capital budgets, as discussed below. our clean fuels strategy for the woods cross refinery calls for the construction of a diesel hydrotreater unit, at an estimated cost of $33.7 million, and execution of a long term hydrogen contract that should allow holly refining and marketing woods cross to produce ulsd by the 2006 deadline. this project will also create the infrastructure to allow for another potential project (which at the date of this report has not been included in our capital budget) that would permit us to increase the percentage of sour crude oil runs at the refinery. the woods cross refinery is also required to meet maximum achievable control technology ( mact ) requirements on its -16- table of contents fcc flue gas by january 1, 2010 and we plan to desulfurize fcc feed prior to this 2010 date to comply with these requirements as well as the future lsg requirements. along with hep and enbridge, inc., we have announced our intent to jointly construct a pipeline to carry crude oil from eastern utah to the woods cross refinery, with connections to other local refineries. we have not finalized the estimated cost or timing of this project. montana refinery as announced on march 2, 2006, we have entered into a definitive agreement with connacher for the sale of the montana refinery. the purchase price for the assets including inventories is estimated at approximately $55 million, subject to certain closing adjustments, and includes 1,000,000 shares of connacher common stock currently valued at approximately $4 million. the consummation of the sale is subject to certain conditions, and we expect the closing to occur on or before april 1, 2006. the amount recorded on our balance sheet at december 31, 2005 for the net assets scheduled to be sold under the definitive agreement is approximately $20 million. our petroleum refinery in great falls, montana processes primarily sour canadian crude oils and primarily serves markets in montana. beginning in january 2004 the crude oil capacity of the refinery was increased from 7,000 bpsd to 8,000 bpsd as a result of continued improvements at the refinery. the following table sets forth information about the montana refinery operations, including non-gaap performance measures for our refinery operations. the cost of products and refinery gross margin do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a under part ii of this form 10-k. years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 montana refinery crude charge (bpd) (1) 7,890 7,550 6,740 refinery production (bpd) (2) 8,370 8,010 7,350 sales of produced refined products (bpd) 8,400 7,970 7,150 sales of refined products (bpd) (3) 8,570 8,190 7,620 refinery utilization (4) 98.6 % 94.4 % 96.3 % average per produced barrel (5) net sales $ 53.74 $ 43.10 $ 35.80 cost of products 43.34 35.37 28.17 refinery gross margin 10.40 7.73 7.63 refinery operating expenses (6) 6.72 5.64 5.85 net operating margin $ 3.68 $ 2.09 $ 1.78 feedstocks: sour crude oil 93 % 92 % 92 % other feedstocks and blends 7 % 8 % 8 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) crude charge represents the barrels per day of crude oil processed at the refinery. (2) refinery production represents the barrels per day of refined products yielded from processing crude and other feedstocks at the refinery. (3) includes refined products purchased for resale. (4) represents crude charge divided by total crude capacity (bpsd). (5) represents average per barrel amounts for produced refined products sold, which are non-gaap. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are located under reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. (6) represents operating expenses of our refinery, exclusive of depreciation, depletion, and amortization, and excludes refining segment expenses of product pipelines and terminals. -17- table of contents the montana refinery is located on a 56 acre site and is a fully integrated refinery with crude distillation, vacuum distillation, fcc, hf alkylation, catalytic reforming, hydrodesulfurization, isomerization, sulfur recovery and product blending units. other supporting infrastructure includes approximately 0.6 million barrels of feedstock and product tankage, extensive asphalt blending / loading facilities, maintenance shops, warehouses and office buildings. the operating units at the montana facility include newly constructed units, older units that have been relocated from other facilities and upgraded and re-erected in great falls, and units that have been operating as part of the great falls facility (with periodic major maintenance) for many years, in some very limited cases since before 1960. the crude oil capacity of the great falls facility is 8,000 bpsd and typically processes or blends an additional 300 bpsd of natural gasoline and butane. the montana refinery currently obtains its supply of crude oil from suppliers in canada via a common carrier pipeline that runs from the canadian border to the refinery. the montana refinery principal markets include great falls, helena, bozeman, billings and missoula, montana. we compete principally with three other montana refineries. the montana refinery is currently meeting the applicable new low sulfur gasoline requirements that became effective in 2004. set forth below is information regarding the principal products produced at the montana refinery: years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 montana refinery sales of produced refined products: gasolines 38 % 41 % 40 % diesel fuels 17 % 17 % 15 % jet fuels 6 % 5 % 7 % asphalt 35 % 33 % 33 % lpg and other 4 % 4 % 5 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % because of the pending sale of the montana refinery to connacher, capital spending is limited for 2006. the montana refinery is capable, with a minimal additional investment, of producing lsg as required by june 2008 and we have been studying changes necessary to comply by june 2010 with ulsd requirements. holly energy partners, l.p. in july 2004, we completed the initial public offering of limited partnership interests in hep, a delaware limited partnership that also trades on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol hep . hep was formed to acquire, own and operate substantially all of the refined product pipeline and terminalling assets that support our refining and marketing operations in west texas, new mexico, utah and arizona and a 70% interest in rio grande. on february 28, 2005, hep closed on a contribution agreement with alon and several of its wholly-owned subsidiaries that provided for hep acquisition of four refined products pipelines, an associated tank farm and two refined products terminals located primarily in texas. on july 8, 2005, we closed on a transaction for hep to acquire our two 65-mile parallel intermediate feedstock pipelines which connect our lovington and artesia, new mexico facilities, a transaction which reduced our ownership interest in hep to 45.0%. we initially consolidated the results of hep and showed the interest we did not own as a minority interest in ownership and earnings. under the provisions of fin 46, we have deconsolidated hep effective july 1, 2005. from july 1, 2005 forward our share of the earnings of hep is reported using the equity method of accounting. for additional information about the formation of hep and the subsequent alon and intermediate pipelines transactions, see note 2 in the notes to consolidated financial statements under item 8, financial statements and supplementary data. hep operates a system of petroleum pipelines and distribution terminals in texas, new mexico, utah, arizona, idaho, washington and oklahoma. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products through its pipelines, by leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, by charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep does not take ownership of products that it transports or terminals and therefore is not directly exposed to changes in commodity prices. hep serves our refineries in new mexico and utah under a 15-year pipelines and terminals agreement ( hep pta ) -18- table of contents expiring 2019 and the 15-year intermediate pipelines agreement expiring 2020 ( hep ipa ). the agreements provide that we transport or terminal volumes on certain of hep facilities that will result in revenues to hep at least equal to specified minimum revenue amounts annually, which are currently $36.7 million under the hep pta and $11.8 million under the hep ipa. in addition, we have agreed to indemnify hep, subject to certain limits, for any historical environmental noncompliance and remediation liabilities. the substantial majority of hep business is devoted to providing transportation and terminalling services to us. hep assets include: pipelines: approximately 780 miles of refined product pipelines, including 340 miles of leased pipelines, that transport gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel principally from our navajo refinery in new mexico to our customers in the metropolitan and rural areas of texas, new mexico, arizona, colorado, utah and northern mexico; approximately 510 miles of refined product pipelines that transport refined products from alon big spring refinery in texas to customers in texas and oklahoma; two parallel 65-mile pipelines that transport intermediate feedstocks and crude oil from our lovington, new mexico refinery facilities to our artesia, new mexico refining facilities; and a 70% interest in rio grande, a joint venture that owns a 249-mile refined product pipeline that transports liquid petroleum gases, or lpgs, from west texas to the texas/mexico border near el paso for further transport into northern mexico. refined product terminals: five refined product terminals (one of which is 50% owned), located in el paso, texas; moriarty, bloomfield and albuquerque, new mexico; and tucson, arizona, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 1.1 million barrels, that are integrated with hep refined product pipeline system that serves our navajo refinery; three refined product terminals (two of which are 50% owned), located in burley and boise, idaho and spokane, washington, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 500,000 barrels, that serve third-party common carrier pipelines; one refined product terminal near mountain home, idaho with a capacity of 120,000 barrels, that serves a nearby united states air force base; two refined product terminals, located in wichita falls and abilene, texas, and one tank farm in orla, texas with aggregate capacity of 480,000 barrels, that are integrated with hep refined product pipelines that serve alon big spring, texas refinery; and two refined product truck loading racks, one located within our navajo refinery that is permitted to load over 40,000 bpd of light refined products, and one located within our woods cross refinery near salt lake city, utah, that is permitted to load over 25,000 bpd of light refined products. pipeline transportation business prior to the initial public offering of hep on july 13, 2004, certain of our pipelines and terminals were included as part of the pipeline transportation business division. after the offering, the pipelines and terminals that remained became part of the refining business division. in years prior to the initial public offering of hep, we developed the pipeline transportation business to generate revenues from unaffiliated parties. the pipeline transportation operations included certain refined product pipelines, the interest in rio grande and terminalling agreements that were contributed to hep along with certain crude oil pipelines that were not contributed to hep. the following paragraphs provide historic information relating to the assets that were previously included in our pipeline transportation division. rio grande is 70% owned by hep and 30% owned by bp p.l.c., and serves northern mexico by transporting lpg from a point near odessa, texas to a subsidiary of pemex at a point near el paso, texas. the pemex subsidiary then transports the lpg to its mendez terminal near juarez, mexico. deliveries by the joint venture began in april 1997. prior to the initial public offering of hep on july 13, 2004, rio grande was owned 70% by us and 30% by bp p.l.c. prior to june 30, 2003, rio grande was owned 25% by us and 75% collectively by two parties unaffiliated with us. on june 30, 2003, we purchased an additional 45% interest in rio grande, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, adding to the 25% interest that our subsidiary already owned. -19- table of contents in 1998, we implemented an alliance with fina, inc. ( fina ) to create a comprehensive supply network that can increase substantially the supplies of gasoline and diesel fuel in the west texas, new mexico, and arizona markets to meet expected increasing demand in the future. fina constructed a 50 mile pipeline that connected an existing fina pipeline system to our 12-inch pipeline between orla and el paso, texas. in august 1998, fina began transporting to el paso, pursuant to a long-term lease of certain capacity of our 12-inch pipeline, gasoline and diesel fuel from its big spring, texas refinery, and we began to realize pipeline rental and terminalling revenues from fina under these agreements. in august 2000, alon, succeeded to fina interest in this alliance. effective from february 2002, alon transports up to 20,000 bpd to el paso on this interconnected system. in the second quarter of fiscal 2000, we acquired certain pipeline transportation and storage assets located in west texas and new mexico in an asset exchange with arco pipeline company. the acquired assets, including 100 miles of pipelines and over 250,000 barrels of tankage, allow us to transport crude oil for unaffiliated companies and increase our ability to access additional crude oil for the navajo refinery. additional operations and other information corporate offices we lease our principal corporate offices in dallas, texas. the lease for our principal corporate offices expires june 30, 2011, requires lease payments of approximately $72,000 per month plus certain operating expenses and provides for one five-year renewal period. functions performed in the dallas office include overall corporate management, refinery and hep management, planning and strategy, corporate finance, crude acquisition, logistics, contract administration, marketing, investor relations, governmental affairs and accounting, tax, treasury, information technology, legal and human resources support functions. exploration and production we conduct a small-scale oil and gas exploration and production program. we have not budgeted any significant amounts for these activities in 2006. other investments prior to february 28, 2005, we had a 49% interest in mrc hi-noon llc, a joint venture operating retail service stations and convenience stores in montana, and we accounted for our share of earnings from the joint venture using the equity method. at december 31, 2004, we had a reserve balance of approximately $0.8 million related to the collectability of advances to the joint venture and related accrued interest. on february 28, 2005, we sold our 49% interest to our joint venture partner and agreed to accept partial payment on the advances we previously made to the joint venture. in connection with this transaction, we received $0.8 million, which resulted in a book gain to us of $0.5 million. employees and labor relations as of december 31, 2005, we had approximately 881 employees, of which approximately 327 are covered by collective bargaining agreements. during 2005 and early 2006, we successfully negotiated with each of our refinery represented groups terms that will be included in definitive collective bargaining agreements that will expire during 2009 and 2010. we consider our employee relations to be good. regulation refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of matter into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. over the years, there have been and continue to be ongoing communications, including notices of violations, and discussions about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. we believe that our current operations are in substantial compliance with existing environmental laws, regulations and permits. -20- table of contents our operations and many of the products we manufacture are subject to certain specific requirements of the federal clean air act ( caa ) and related state and local regulations. the caa contains provisions that will require capital expenditures for the installation of certain air pollution control devices at our refineries during the next several years. subsequent rule making authorized by the caa or similar laws or new agency interpretations of existing rules, may necessitate additional expenditures in future years. in december 2001, we entered into an agreement for a consent decree ( consent agreement ) with the epa, the new mexico environment department and the montana department of environmental quality with respect to a global settlement of issues concerning the application of air quality requirements to past and future operations of our refineries. the consent agreement requires us to make investments at our new mexico and montana refineries for the installation of certain state of the art pollution control equipment currently expected to total approximately $15.0 million over a period expected to end in 2010, of which approximately $10.0 million has been expended to date. if the pending sale of the montana refinery is consummated, we will not be required to spend approximately $2.0 million (included in the $15.0 million total) for remaining investments at the montana refinery under the consent agreement. the epa and the state of utah have recently asserted that we have caa liabilities relating to our woods cross refinery because of actions taken or not taken by prior owners of the woods cross refinery, which we purchased from conocophillips in june 2003. we are currently assessing whether it will be feasible to settle the issues presented by means of an agreement similar to the 2001 consent agreement we entered into for our navajo and montana refineries. the epa and utah authorities have indicated that any such agreement in the case of the woods cross refinery would likely involve undertakings by us to make specified capital investments and to make changes in operating procedures at the refinery as well as the payment of a penalty. the agreements for the purchase of the woods cross refinery provide that conocophillips will indemnify us, subject to specified limitations, for environmental claims arising from circumstances prior to our purchase of the refinery. at the date of this report, it is not possible to predict whether we will be able to reach a mutually acceptable agreement with the epa and utah environmental authorities, what the terms of any agreement would be, what the outcome would be if the matter were resolved in a lawsuit brought by the epa and utah authorities, or what portion of claims asserted by the epa and the utah authorities would ultimately be paid by conocophillips. the caa may authorize the epa to require modifications in the formulation of the refined transportation fuel products we manufacture in order to limit the emissions associated with their final use. for example, in december 1999, the epa promulgated national regulations limiting the amount of sulfur that is to be allowed in gasoline. the epa believes such limits are necessary to protect new automobile emission control systems that may be inhibited by sulfur in the fuel. the new regulations required the phase-in of gasoline sulfur standards beginning in 2004, with special provisions for small refiners and for refiners serving those western states exhibiting lesser air quality problems. the epa promulgated regulations that will limit the sulfur content of highway diesel fuel beginning in 2006 to 15 ppm. the current standard is 500 ppm. as a small business refiner, we may, on a refinery-by-refinery basis, choose to meet the 15 ppm diesel standard in 2006 and extend the interim small refiner gasoline standard by three years (until 2011) or delay the diesel standard by four years (until 2010) and keep the original gasoline sulfur program timing. our navajo and woods cross refineries plan to meet the diesel sulfur standard in 2006 and take the gasoline extension, while our montana refinery plans to keep the original timing for the gasoline sulfur schedule and take the diesel extension . in june 2004, the epa issued new regulations that will limit emissions from diesel fuel powered engines used in non-road activities such as mining, construction, agriculture, railroad and marine and will simultaneously limit the sulfur content of diesel fuel used in these engines to facilitate compliance with the new emission standards. although the regulations provide for a timed phase-in of the non-road low sulfur requirements, more time beyond the on-road diesel deadlines to comply, and still more time to comply in the case of small refiners such as us, we plan to meet the ultimate 15 ppm standard for our non-road diesel fuel at the same time we meet the standard for on-road diesel (2006 for the navajo and woods cross refineries, and 2010 for the montana refinery). thus we expect to achieve early compliance for the non-road diesel fuel low sulfur requirements in all three cases. -21- table of contents we are currently monitoring an epa initiative on gasoline that would impose further reductions in benzene content, volatility, sulfur, and other parameters. these new requirements, other requirements of the caa, or other presently existing or future environmental regulations could cause us to expend substantial amounts to permit our refineries to produce products that meet applicable requirements. we are aware of public concern regarding possible groundwater contamination resulting from the use of mtbe as a source of required oxygen in gasolines sold in specified areas of the country. gasoline containing a specified amount of oxygen is required by the epa to be used in those regions that exceed the national ambient air quality standards for either ozone or carbon monoxide (this requirement is due to be eliminated in 2006 under a mandate contained within the energy policy act of 2005). meanwhile, the oxygen requirement may be satisfied by adding to gasoline any one of a number of oxygen-containing materials including, among others, mtbe and ethanol. we no longer distribute or market gasolines that contain mtbe. our operations are also subject to the federal clean water act ( cwa ), the federal safe drinking water act ( sdwa ) and comparable state and local requirements. the cwa, the sdwa and analogous laws prohibit any discharge into surface waters, ground waters and publicly-owned treatment works except in strict conformance with permits, such as pre-treatment permits and national pollutant discharge elimination system ( npdes ) permits, issued by federal, state and local governmental agencies. npdes permits and analogous water discharge permits are valid for a maximum of five years and must be renewed. we generate wastes that may be subject to the resource conservation and recovery act ( rcra ) and comparable state and local requirements. the epa and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ( cercla ), also known as superfund, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment. analogous state laws impose similar responsibilities and liabilities on responsible parties. in the course of our historical operations, as well as in our current normal operations, we have generated waste, some of which falls within the statutory definition of a hazardous substance and some of which may have been disposed of at sites that may require cleanup under superfund. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed of. we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries, including the consent agreement discussed above. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our refineries and at pipeline transportation facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. -22- table of contents we cannot predict what additional health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. insurance our operations are subject to normal hazards of operations, including fire, explosion and weather-related perils. we maintain various insurance coverages, including business interruption insurance, subject to certain deductibles. we are not fully insured against certain risks because such risks are not fully insurable, coverage is unavailable, or premium costs, in our judgment, do not justify such expenditures. item 1a. risk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, by competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve and by factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient or alternative fuel vehicles or an increase in vehicle fuel economy. in addition, our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil generally results in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results therefore depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flows. -23- table of contents we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control. these projects may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, a component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. we may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and including recent significant increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may or may not produce the results intended. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of matter into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. over the years, there have been and continue to be ongoing communications, including notices of violations, and discussions about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed of. we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our -24- table of contents facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. the epa and the state of utah have recently asserted that we have caa liabilities relating to our woods cross refinery because of actions taken or not taken by prior owners of the woods cross refinery, which we purchased from conocophillips in june 2003. we are currently assessing whether it will be feasible to settle the issues presented by means of an agreement similar to the 2001 consent agreement we entered into for our navajo and montana refineries. the epa and utah authorities have indicated that any such agreement in the case of the woods cross refinery would likely involve undertakings by us to make specified capital investments and to make changes in operating procedures at the refinery as well as the payment of a penalty. the agreements for the purchase of the woods cross refinery provide that conocophillips will indemnify us, subject to specified limitations, for environmental claims arising from circumstances prior to our purchase of the refinery. at the date of this report, it is not possible to predict whether we will be able to reach a mutually acceptable agreement with the epa and utah environmental authorities, what the terms of any agreement would be, what the outcome would be if the matter were resolved in a lawsuit brought by the epa and utah authorities, or what portion of claims asserted by the epa and the utah authorities would ultimately be paid by conocophillips. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. we cannot predict what additional health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. we are currently monitoring an epa initiative on gasoline that would impose further reductions in benzene content, volatility, sulfur, and other parameters. these new requirements, other requirements of the caa, or other presently existing or future environmental regulations could cause us to expend substantial amounts to permit our refineries to produce products that meet applicable requirements. for addition information on regulations affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of the refining industry. we are not engaged in any significant petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. if we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, both within and outside of our industry, there could be material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -25- table of contents in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers. the renewal or replacement of existing sales agreements with our customers depends on a number of factors outside our control, including competition from other refiners and the demand for refined products in the markets that we serve. loss of, or reduction in amounts purchased by, our major customers could have an adverse effect on us to the extent that, because of market limitations or transportation constraints, we are not able to correspondingly increase sales to other purchasers. a material decrease in the supply of crude oil available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels. in order to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for new crude oil supplies. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. the potential operation of new refined product transportation pipelines or proration of existing pipelines could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets, including el paso, albuquerque and phoenix. the longhorn pipeline, which is owned by longhorn partners, is a new source of pipeline transportation from gulf coast refineries to el paso. this pipeline is approximately 700 miles and runs from the houston area of the gulf coast to el paso, utilizing a direct route. longhorn partners has announced that it would use the pipeline initially to transport approximately 72,000 bpd of refined products from the gulf coast to el paso and markets served from el paso, with an ultimate maximum capacity of 225,000 bpd. since inception of longhorn pipeline operations in late 2005, it is our understanding that there have been some limited shipments (substantially under the 72,000 bpd rate) of refined products. although the longhorn pipeline has had very limited impact on us to date, if the longhorn pipeline is ever able to operate as has been proposed and significantly increases the volumes of refined products it transports, downward pressure on wholesale refined products margins in el paso and related markets could result. however, any effects on our markets in tucson and phoenix, arizona and albuquerque, new mexico would be expected to be limited in the near-term because current common carrier pipelines from el paso to these markets are now running at capacity and proration policies of these pipelines allocate only limited capacity to new shippers. although chevrontexaco has not announced any plans to expand their common carrier pipeline from el paso to albuquerque to address their capacity constraint, sfpp is currently expanding the capacity of its pipeline from el paso to the arizona market by between 45,000 and 50,000 bpd. sfpp has announced an expected completion date of april 2006 for this first expansion. additionally, sfpp announced a further planned expansion of the capacity of this pipeline from el paso to the arizona market by 23,000 bpd, with an expected completion date in the summer of 2007. although our results of operations might be adversely impacted by the longhorn pipeline and by the expansions of sfpp el paso-to-arizona pipeline, we are unable to predict at this time the extent to which we could be negatively affected. an additional factor that could affect some of our markets is excess pipeline capacity from the west coast into our arizona markets after the expansion in 1999 of the pipeline from the west coast to phoenix. if refined products become available on the west coast in excess of demand in that market, additional products may be shipped into our arizona markets with resulting possible downward pressure on refined product prices in these markets. in addition to the projects described above, other projects have been explored from time to time by refiners and other entities which if completed, could result in further increases in the supply of products to our markets. the common carrier pipelines we use to serve the arizona and albuquerque markets are currently operated at or near capacity and are subject to proration. as a result, the volumes of refined products that we and other shippers -26- table of contents have been able to deliver to these markets have been limited. the flow of additional products into el paso for shipment to arizona, either as a result of the longhorn pipeline or otherwise, could further exacerbate such constraints on our deliveries to arizona. no assurances can be given that we will not experience future constraints on our ability to deliver products through the common carrier pipeline to arizona. any future constraints on our ability to transport refined products to arizona could, if sustained, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as mentioned above, sfpp has announced plans to expand the capacity of its pipeline from el paso to the arizona market. the proposed expansion would permit us to ship additional refined products to markets in arizona, but pipeline tariffs would likely be higher and the expansion would also permit additional shipments by competing suppliers. the ultimate effects of sfpp proposed pipeline expansion on us cannot presently be estimated. in the case of the albuquerque market, the common carrier pipeline we use to serve this market out of el paso currently operates at or near capacity with resulting limitations on the amount of refined products that we and other shippers can deliver. however, through our relationship with hep, we have access to pipelines running from near the navajo refinery to the albuquerque vicinity and bloomfield, new mexico, that will permit us to deliver a total of up to 45,000 bpd of light products to these locations, thereby eliminating the risk of future pipeline constraints on shipments to albuquerque. if needed, additional pump stations could further increase hep pipeline capabilities. any future constraints on our ability to transport refined products to arizona or albuquerque could, if sustained, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information on competition in our markets due to new product transportation pipelines or proration of existing pipelines, please see markets and competition under the navajo refinery discussion under items 1 and 2, business and properties . we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the distribution network for our refined products and we own a significant equity interest in hep. we currently own a 45.0% interest in hep, including the 2% general partner interest. hep operates a system of refined product pipelines and distribution terminals in texas, new mexico, utah, arizona, idaho, washington and oklahoma. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting refined products through its pipelines, by leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, by charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves our refineries in new mexico and utah under 15 year pipelines and terminals agreements expiring in 2019 and 2020. the agreements provide that we transport or terminal volumes on certain of hep facilities that result in revenues to hep at least equal to specified minimum revenue amounts annually. furthermore, through our 45% ownership of hep, we record our share of hep earnings and receive distributions from hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on it significant customers, including us, competition from other pipelines, environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations, operational hazards and risks, pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge, limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep debt covenants, and other financial, operations and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks adversely impacting hep could affect our distribution system or the earnings and cash flows we receive from hep and thereby adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. -27- table of contents our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in our operations. we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased, and could increase further. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. if we lose any of our key personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we would be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. we are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. appeals are pending that are expected to affect our lawsuit to recover amounts in dispute in connection with our prior sales of military jet fuel to the united states government. we have pending in the united states court of federal claims a lawsuit against the department of defense relating to claims totaling approximately $299 million with respect to jet fuel sales by two subsidiaries in the years 1982 through 1999. our claims are similar to claims in a number of other cases also pending in the united states court of federal claims brought by other refining companies concerning military fuel sales. in response to our request, the judge in our case issued in february 2006 an order continuing the stay of our case originally ordered in march 2004. while the stay of our case is in effect we expect that further judicial proceedings in one or more other cases brought by other refining companies may clarify the legal standards that will apply to our case. it is not possible to predict the outcome of further proceedings in our case. other legal proceedings that could affect future results are described in item 3, legal proceedings. terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on september 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are not known at this time. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. -28- table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income plus (i) interest expense net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation, depletion and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda. years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 (in thousands) net income $ 167,658 $ 83,879 $ 46,053 add provision for income tax 101,424 54,590 28,306 add interest expense 5,101 3,524 2,136 subtract interest income (6,901 ) (4,372 ) (458 ) add depreciation and amortization 43,817 40,481 36,275 ebitda $ 311,099 $ 178,102 $ 112,312 reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. we calculate refinery gross margin and net operating margin using net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold. these two margins do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statement of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. -54- table of contents refinery gross margin refinery gross margin per barrel is the difference between average net sales price and average cost of products per barrel of produced refined products. refinery gross margin for each of our refineries and for all of our refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery net sales $ 69.11 $ 51.42 $ 38.95 less cost of products 55.50 41.26 31.52 refinery gross margin $ 13.61 $ 10.16 $ 7.43 woods cross refinery (1) net sales $ 69.13 $ 51.33 $ 40.91 less cost of products 59.51 45.33 34.81 refinery gross margin $ 9.62 $ 6.00 $ 6.10 montana refinery net sales $ 53.74 $ 43.10 $ 35.80 less cost of products 43.34 35.37 28.17 refinery gross margin $ 10.40 $ 7.73 $ 7.63 consolidated net sales $ 67.99 $ 50.80 $ 38.99 less cost of products 55.53 41.70 31.76 refinery gross margin $ 12.46 $ 9.10 $ 7.23 (1) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only for periods since the purchase date. net operating margin net operating margin per barrel is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel of produced refined products. net operating margin for each of our refineries and for all of our refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery refinery gross margin $ 13.61 $ 10.16 $ 7.43 less refinery operating expenses 3.94 3.20 3.24 net operating margin $ 9.67 $ 6.96 $ 4.19 woods cross refinery (1) refinery gross margin $ 9.62 $ 6.00 $ 6.10 less refinery operating expenses 4.61 3.92 3.92 net operating margin $ 5.01 $ 2.08 $ 2.18 montana refinery refinery gross margin $ 10.40 $ 7.73 $ 7.63 less refinery operating expenses 6.72 5.64 5.85 net operating margin $ 3.68 $ 2.09 $ 1.78 -55- table of contents years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 average per produced barrel: consolidated refinery gross margin $ 12.46 $ 9.10 $ 7.23 less refinery operating expenses 4.30 3.53 3.58 net operating margin $ 8.16 $ 5.57 $ 3.65 (1) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only for periods since the purchase date. below are reconciliations to our consolidated statement of income for (i) net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold, and (ii) net operating margin and refinery gross margin. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. reconciliations of refined product sales from produced products sold to total sales and other revenue years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 navajo refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 69.11 $ 51.42 $ 38.95 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 80,110 78,880 62,570 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 2,020,787 $ 1,484,500 $ 889,542 woods cross refinery (1) average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 69.13 $ 51.33 $ 40.91 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 26,390 23,520 22,480 times number of days in period 365 366 214 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 665,884 $ 441,865 $ 196,807 montana refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 53.74 $ 43.10 $ 35.80 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 8,400 7,970 7,150 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 164,767 $ 125,724 $ 93,429 sum of refined product sales from produced products sold from our three refineries (4) $ 2,851,438 $ 2,052,089 $ 1,179,778 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (2) 278,506 167,422 192,899 total refined products sales 3,129,944 2,219,511 1,372,677 add other refining segment revenue (3) 64,823 15,186 21,759 total refining segment revenue 3,194,767 2,234,697 1,394,436 add hep sales and other revenue 36,034 28,182 add corporate and other revenues 1,772 1,916 9,258 subtract consolidations and eliminations (19,828 ) (18,422 ) (450 ) sales and other revenues $ 3,212,745 $ 2,246,373 $ 1,403,244 (1) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only for periods since the purchase date. (2) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products or to meet delivery commitments. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the revenues associated with nk asphalt partners subsequent to their consolidation in february 2005 and revenues during 2004 and 2003 from terminal and pipeline assets that are now owned by hep. (4) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. -56- table of contents years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 average sales prices per produced barrel sold $ 67.99 $ 50.80 $ 38.99 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 114,900 110,370 82,900 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 2,851,438 $ 2,052,089 $ 1,179,778 reconciliation of average cost of products per produced barrel sold to total costs of products sold years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 navajo refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 55.50 $ 41.26 $ 31.52 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 80,110 78,880 62,570 times number of days in period 365 366 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 1,622,828 $ 1,191,180 $ 719,855 woods cross refinery (1) average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 59.51 $ 45.33 $ 34.81 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 26,390 23,520 22,480 times number of days in period 365 366 214 cost of products for produced products sold $ 573,221 $ 390,215 $ 167,461 montana refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 43.34 $ 35.37 $ 28.17 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 8,400 7,970 7,150 times number of days in period 365 366 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 132,880 $ 103,175 $ 73,517 sum of cost of products for produced products sold from our three refineries (4) $ 2,328,929 $ 1,684,570 $ 960,833 add refined product costs from purchased products sold, certain hedging gains and rounding (2) 279,868 169,849 190,939 total refined costs of products sold 2,608,797 1,854,419 1,151,772 add other refining segment costs of products sold (3) 47,633 total refining segment costs of products sold 2,656,430 1,854,419 1,151,772 add corporate and other costs of products sold 4,536 subtract consolidation and eliminations (19,828 ) (18,422 ) (450 ) costs of products sold (exclusive of depreciation, depletion and amortization) $ 2,636,602 $ 1,835,997 $ 1,155,858 (1) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only for periods since the purchase date. (2) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products or to meet delivery commitments. additionally during 2005, we entered into petroleum futures transactions hedging forecasted diesel fuel sales. the positions were fully liquidated during august to november 2005 resulting in gains of $3.2 million for the year ending december 31, 2005, which are recorded as a reduction in costs of products sold. (3) other refining segment costs of products sold include the cost of products for nk asphalt partners subsequent to their consolidation in february 2005. (4) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. -57- table of contents years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 55.53 $ 41.70 $ 31.76 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 114,900 110,370 82,900 times number of days in period 365 366 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 2,328,929 $ 1,684,570 $ 960,833 reconciliation of average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 navajo refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 3.94 $ 3.20 $ 3.24 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 80,110 78,880 62,570 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 115,206 $ 92,384 $ 73,995 woods cross refinery (1) average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 4.61 $ 3.92 $ 3.92 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 26,390 23,520 22,480 times number of days in period 365 366 214 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 44,405 $ 33,745 $ 18,858 montana refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 6.72 $ 5.64 $ 5.85 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 8,400 7,970 7,150 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 20,604 $ 16,452 $ 15,267 sum of refinery operating expenses per produced products sold from our three refineries (3) $ 180,215 $ 142,581 $ 108,120 add other refining segment operating expenses and rounding (2) 20,549 19,666 23,120 total refining segment operating expenses 200,764 162,247 131,240 add hep operating expenses 11,836 10,103 add corporate and other costs 59 166 3,023 operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation, depletion and amortization) $ 212,659 $ 172,516 $ 134,263 (1) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only for periods since the purchase date. (2) other refining segment operating expenses include the marketing costs associated with our refining segment, the operating expenses of nk asphalt partners subsequent to their consolidation in february 2005 and the operating expenses during 2004 and 2003 of terminal and pipeline assets now owned by hep. (3) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 4.30 $ 3.53 $ 3.58 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 114,900 110,370 82,900 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 180,215 $ 142,581 $ 108,120 -58- table of contents reconciliation of net operating margin per barrel to refinery gross margin per barrel to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 navajo refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 9.67 $ 6.96 $ 4.19 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 3.94 3.20 3.24 refinery gross margin per barrel 13.61 10.16 7.43 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 55.50 41.26 31.52 average net sales per produced barrel sold $ 69.11 $ 51.42 $ 38.95 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 80,110 78,880 62,570 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 2,020,787 $ 1,484,500 $ 889,542 woods cross refinery (1) net operating margin per barrel $ 5.01 $ 2.08 $ 2.18 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 4.61 3.92 3.92 refinery gross margin per barrel 9.62 6.00 6.10 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 59.51 45.33 34.81 average net sales per produced barrel sold $ 69.13 $ 51.33 $ 40.91 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 26,390 23,520 22,480 times number of days in period 365 366 214 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 665,884 $ 441,865 $ 196,807 montana refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 3.68 $ 2.09 $ 1.78 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 6.72 5.64 5.85 refinery gross margin per barrel 10.40 7.73 7.63 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 43.34 35.37 28.17 average net sales per produced barrel sold $ 53.74 $ 43.10 $ 35.80 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 8,400 7,970 7,150 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 164,767 $ 125,724 $ 93,429 sum of refined product sales from produced products sold from our three refineries (4) $ 2,851,438 $ 2,052,089 $ 1,179,778 add refined product sales from purchased products sold and rounding (2) 278,506 167,422 192,899 total refined product sales 3,129,944 2,219,511 1,372,677 add other refining segment revenue (3) 64,823 15,186 21,759 total refining segment revenue 3,194,767 2,234,697 1,394,436 add hep sales and other revenues 36,034 28,182 add corporate and other revenues 1,772 1,916 9,258 subtract consolidations and eliminations (19,828 ) (18,422 ) (450 ) sales and other revenues $ 3,212,745 $ 2,246,373 $ 1,403,244 (1) we acquired the woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 and we are reporting amounts for woods cross only for periods since the purchase date. (2) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products or to meet delivery commitments. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the revenues associated with nk asphalt partners subsequent to their consolidation in february 2005 and revenues during 2004 and 2003 from terminal and pipeline assets that are now owned by hep. (4) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. -59- table of contents years ended december 31, 2005 2004 2003 net operating margin per barrel $ 8.16 $ 5.57 $ 3.65 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 4.30 3.53 3.58 refinery gross margin per barrel 12.46 9.10 7.23 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 55.53 41.70 31.76 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 67.99 $ 50.80 $ 38.99 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 114,900 110,370 82,900 times number of days in period 365 366 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 2,851,438 $ 2,052,089 $ 1,179,778 -60- table of contentsall forward-looking statements included in this form 10-k and all subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. the forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and, other than as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. -3- table of contents definitions within this report, the following terms have these specific meanings: alkylation means the reaction of propylene or butylene (olefins) with isobutane to form an iso-paraffinic gasoline (inverse of cracking). bpd means the number of barrels per day of crude oil or petroleum products. bpsd means the number of barrels per stream day (barrels of capacity in a 24 hour period) of crude oil or petroleum products. catalytic reforming means a refinery process which uses a precious metal (such as platinum) based catalyst to convert low octane naphtha fractionated directly from crude oil to high octane gasoline blendstock and hydrogen. the hydrogen produced from the reforming process is used to desulfurize other refinery oils and is the main source of hydrogen for the refinery. cracking means the process of breaking down larger, heavier and more complex hydrocarbon molecules into simpler and lighter molecules. crude distillation means the process of distilling vapor from liquid crudes, usually by heating, and condensing slightly above atmospheric pressure the vapor back to liquid in order to purify, fractionate or form the desired products. ethanol means a high octane gasoline blend stock that is used to make various grades of gasoline. fcc , or fluid catalytic cracking, means a refinery process that breaks down large complex hydrocarbon molecules into smaller more useful ones using a circulating bed of catalyst at relatively high temperatures. hydrocracker means a refinery unit that breaks down large complex hydrocarbon molecules into smaller more useful ones using a fixed bed of catalyst at high pressure and temperature with hydrogen. hydrodesulfurization means to remove sulfur and nitrogen compounds from oil or gas in the presence of hydrogen and a catalyst at relatively high temperatures. hydrogen plant means a refinery unit that converts natural gas and steam to high purity hydrogen, which is then used in the hydrodesulfurization, hydrocracking and isomerization processes. hf alkylation , or hydrofluoric alkylation, means a refinery process which combines isobutane and c3/c4 olefins using hf acid as a catalyst to make high octane gasoline blend stock. isomerization means a refinery process for rearranging the structure of c5/c6 molecules without changing their size or chemical composition and is used to improve the octane of c5/c6 gasoline blendstocks. lpg means liquid petroleum gases. lsg, or low sulfur gasoline, means gasoline that contains less than 30 ppm of total sulfur. mmbtu or one million british thermal units, means for each unit, the amount of heat required to raise one pound of water one degree fahrenheit at one atmosphere pressure. mtbe means methyl tertiary butyl ether, a high octane gasoline blend stock that is used to make various grades of gasoline. natural gasoline means a low octane gasoline blend stock that is purchased and used to blend with other high octane stocks produced to make various grades of gasoline. -4- table of contents ppm means parts-per-million. refinery gross margin means the difference between average net sales price and average costs of products per barrel of produced refined products. this does not include the associated depreciation, depletion and amortization costs. reforming means the process of converting gasoline type molecules into aromatic, higher octane gasoline blend stocks while producing hydrogen in the process. rose , or solvent deasphalter / residuum oil supercritical extraction, means a refinery unit that uses a light hydrocarbon like propane or butane to extract non asphaltene heavy oils from asphalt or atmospheric reduced crude. these deasphalted oils are then further converted to gasoline and diesel in the fcc process. the remaining asphaltenes are either sold, blended to fuel oil or blended with other asphalt as a hardener. sour crude oil means crude oil containing quantities of sulfur greater than 0.4 percent by weight, while sweet crude oil means crude oil containing quantities of sulfur equal to or less than 0.4 percent by weight. ulsd, or ultra low sulfur diesel, means diesel fuel that contains less than 15 ppm of total sulfur. vacuum distillation means the process of distilling vapor from liquid crudes, usually by heating, and condensing below atmospheric pressure the vapor back to liquid in order to purify, fractionate or form the desired products. -5- table of contents index to defined terms and names the following other terms and names that appear in this form 10-k are defined on the following pages: page reference ars 40 caa 20 cercla 21 connacher 8 consent agreement 20 cwa 21 desc 13 ebitda 34 epa 14 exchange act 92 fasb 7 ferc 27 fin 7 fina 19 hep 7 hep ipa 18 hep pta 18 hep senior notes 39 koch 11 leased pipeline 12 longhorn 12 lifo 36 mdeq 29 mmscf 13 montana refinery 8 mrc 29 navajo refinery 7 npdes 21 pemex 9 plains 11 rio grande 7 sec 7 sdwa 21 sfas 39 sfpp 11 vrdn 40 woods cross refinery 7 terms used in the financial statements and footnotes are as defined therein. -6- table of contents items 1 and 2. business and properties company overview references herein to holly corporation include holly corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. in accordance with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) plain english guidelines, this annual report on form 10-k has been written in the first person. in this document, the words we , our , ours and us refer only to holly corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries or to holly corporation or an individual subsidiary and not to any other person. we are principally an independent petroleum refiner which produces high value light products such as gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel. we were incorporated in delaware in 1947 and maintain our principal corporate offices at 100 crescent court, suite 1600, dallas, texas 75201-6915. our telephone number is 214-871-3555 and our internet website address is www.hollycorp.com. the information contained on our website does not constitute part of this annual report on form 10-k. a copy of this annual report on form 10-k will be provided without charge upon written request to the vice president, investor relations at the above address. a direct link to our filings at the sec web site is available on our website on the investors page. also available on our website are copies of our corporate governance guidelines, audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, nominating / corporate governance committee charter and code of business conduct and ethics, all of which will be provided without charge upon written request to the vice president, investor relations at the above address. our code of business conduct and ethics applies to all of our officers, employees and directors, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. on april 26, 2004, our stock began trading on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol hoc . our stock formerly traded on the american stock exchange. in july 2004, we completed the initial public offering of limited partnership interests in holly energy partners, l.p. ( hep ), a delaware limited partnership that also trades on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol hep . hep was formed to acquire, own and operate substantially all of the refined product pipeline and terminalling assets that support our refining and marketing operations in west texas, new mexico, utah and arizona and a 70% interest in rio grande pipeline company ( rio grande ). we initially consolidated the results of hep and showed the interest we did not own as a minority interest in ownership and earnings. on july 8, 2005, we closed on a transaction for hep to acquire our two 65-mile parallel intermediate feedstock pipelines which connect our lovington and artesia, new mexico facilities, which reduced our ownership interest in hep to 45.0%. under the provision of the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) interpretation no. ( fin ) 46 (revised), consolidation of variable interest entities, we deconsolidated hep effective july 1, 2005. the deconsolidation has been presented from july 1, 2005 forward, and our share of the earnings of hep from july 1, 2005 is reported using the equity method of accounting. as of december 31, 2006, we: owned and operated two refineries consisting of a petroleum refinery in artesia, new mexico that is operated in conjunction with crude oil distillation and vacuum distillation and other facilities situated 65 miles away in lovington, new mexico (collectively known as the navajo refinery ), and a refinery in woods cross, utah ( woods cross refinery ); owned approximately 800 miles of crude oil pipelines located principally in west texas and new mexico; owned 100% of nk asphalt partners, which manufactures and markets asphalt products from various terminals in arizona and new mexico and does business under the name of holly asphalt company; and owned a 45% interest in hep (which includes our 2% general partnership interest), which has logistics assets including approximately 1,700 miles of petroleum product pipelines located in texas, new mexico and oklahoma (including 340 miles of leased pipeline); eleven refined product terminals; two refinery truck rack facilities; a refined products tank farm facility; and a 70% interest in rio grande. navajo refining company, l.p., one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, owns the navajo refinery. the navajo refinery has a crude capacity of 83,000 bpsd of sour and sweet crude oils, can process up to approximately 90% sour crude oils, and serves markets in the southwestern united states and northern mexico. in june 2003, we acquired the woods cross refining facility from conocophillips. the woods cross refinery, located just north of salt lake city, has a crude capacity of 26,000 bpsd and is operated by holly refining marketing company -7- table of contents woods cross, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. this facility is a high conversion refinery that processes regional sweet and canadian sour crude oils. in conjunction with the refining operations, we own approximately 800 miles of crude oil pipelines that serve primarily as the supply network for our new mexico refinery operations. on march 31, 2006 we sold our petroleum refinery in great falls, montana (the montana refinery ) to a subsidiary of connacher oil and gas limited ( connacher ). the net cash proceeds we received on the sale of the montana refinery amounted to $48.9 million, net of transaction fees and expenses. additionally we received 1,000,000 shares of connacher common stock valued at approximately $4.3 million at march 31, 2006. accordingly, the results of operations of the montana refinery and a gain of $14.0 million, net of income taxes of $8.3 million, are shown in discontinued operations. our operations are currently organized into one business division, refining. the refining business division includes the navajo refinery, woods cross refinery and holly asphalt company. prior to our deconsolidation of hep on july 1, 2005 our operations were organized into two business divisions, which were refining and hep. our operations that are not included in either the refining or hep (prior to its deconsolidation) business divisions include the operations of holly corporation, the parent company, a small-scale oil and gas exploration and production program, and prior to the deconsolidation of hep, the elimination of the revenue and costs associated with hep pipeline transportation services for us as well as the recognition of the minority interests income of hep. refinery operations our refinery operations include the navajo refinery and the woods cross refinery. the following table sets forth information, including performance measures about our refinery operations that are not calculations based upon u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ). the cost of products and refinery gross margin do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. information regarding our individual refineries is provided later under this section of refinery operations. years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 consolidated (8) crude charge (bpd) (1) 96,570 95,950 94,680 refinery production (bpd) (2) 105,730 106,040 103,060 sales of produced refined products (bpd) 105,090 106,500 102,400 sales of refined products (bpd) (3) 119,870 117,110 110,570 refinery utilization (4) 92.4 % 95.0 % 94.7 % average per produced barrel (5) net sales $ 80.21 $ 69.12 $ 51.40 cost of products (6) 64.43 56.50 42.20 refinery gross margin 15.78 12.62 9.20 refinery operating expenses (7) 4.83 4.11 3.37 net operating margin $ 10.95 $ 8.51 $ 5.83 feedstocks: sour crude oil 61 % 67 % 65 % sweet crude oil 28 % 21 % 24 % other feedstocks and blends 11 % 12 % 11 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) crude charge represents the barrels per day of crude oil processed at the crude units at our refineries. (2) refinery production represents the barrels per day of refined products yielded from processing crude and other refinery feedstocks through the crude units and other conversion units at our refineries. -8- table of contents (3) includes refined products purchased for resale. (4) represents crude charge divided by total crude capacity (bpsd). our crude capacity was increased from 101,000 bpsd to 109,000 bpsd in mid-year 2006. (5) represents average per barrel amount for produced refined products sold, which is a non-gaap measure. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are located under reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. (6) subsequent to the formation of hep, transportation costs billed by hep are included in cost of products. (7) represents operating expenses of our refineries, exclusive of depreciation, depletion and amortization, and excludes refining segment expenses of product pipelines and terminals. (8) the montana refinery was sold on march 31, 2006. amounts reported are for the navajo and woods cross refineries. the petroleum refining business is highly competitive. among our competitors are some of the world largest integrated petroleum companies, which have their own crude oil supplies and distribution and marketing systems. we also compete with other independent refiners. competition in a particular geographic area is affected primarily by the amount of refined products produced by refineries located in that area and by the availability of refined products and the cost of transportation to that area from refineries located outside the area. projects have been explored from time to time by refiners and other entities which projects, if completed, could result in further increases in the supply of products to some or all of our markets. in recent years, there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between competitors in our geographic markets. these transactions could increase future competitive pressures on us. set forth below is information regarding our principal products. years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 consolidated sales of produced refined products: gasolines 61 % 59 % 59 % diesel fuels 28 % 27 % 27 % jet fuels 3 % 4 % 5 % asphalt 2 % 4 % 5 % lpg and other 6 % 6 % 4 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % we have several significant customers, none of which accounts for more than 10% of our business. our principal customers for gasoline include other refiners, convenience store chains, independent marketers, an affiliate of petr leos mexicanos ( pemex ), the government-owned energy company of mexico, and retailers. diesel fuel is sold to other refiners, truck stop chains, wholesalers and railroads. jet fuel is sold primarily for military use. asphalt is sold to governmental entities or contractors. lpg are sold to lpg wholesalers and lpg retailers and carbon black oil is sold for further processing or blended into fuel oil. loss of, or reduction in amounts purchased by, our major customers that purchase for their retail operations could have an adverse effect on us to the extent that, because of market limitations or transportation constraints, we are not able to correspondingly increase sales to other purchasers. in order to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually enter into contracts for new crude oil supplies. the primary factors affecting our ability to contract for new crude oil supplies are our ability to connect new supplies of crude oil to our gathering systems or to our other crude oil receiving lines, our success in contracting for and receiving existing crude oil supplies that are currently being purchased by other refineries and the level of drilling activity near our gathering systems or our other crude oil receiving lines. navajo refinery facilities the navajo refinery has a crude oil capacity of 83,000 bpsd and has the ability to process sour crude oils into high value light products (such as gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel). the navajo refinery converts approximately 92% of its raw materials throughput into high value light products. for 2006, gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel (excluding volumes purchased for resale) represented 60%, 28% and 4%, respectively, of the navajo refinery sales volumes. -9- table of contents the following table sets forth information about the navajo refinery operations, including non-gaap performance measures. the cost of products and refinery gross margin do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 navajo refinery crude charge (bpd) (1) 72,930 71,850 71,060 refinery production (bpd) (2) 80,540 80,190 79,330 sales of produced refined products (bpd) 79,940 80,110 78,880 sales of refined products (bpd) (3) 93,660 89,400 86,410 refinery utilization (4) 92.9 % 95.8 % 94.7 % average per produced barrel (5) net sales $ 79.62 $ 69.11 $ 51.42 cost of products (6) 64.25 55.50 41.26 refinery gross margin 15.37 13.61 10.16 refinery operating expenses (7) 4.74 3.94 3.20 net operating margin $ 10.63 $ 9.67 $ 6.96 feedstocks: sour crude oil 80 % 85 % 83 % sweet crude oil 8 % 2 % 5 % other feedstocks and blends 12 % 13 % 12 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) crude charge represents the barrels per day of crude oil processed at the refinery. (2) refinery production represents the barrels per day of refined products yielded from processing crude and other refinery feedstocks through the crude units and other conversion units at the refinery. (3) includes refined products purchased for resale. (4) represents crude charge divided by total crude capacity (bpsd). the crude capacity was increased from 75,000 bpsd to 83,000 bpsd in mid-year 2006. (5) represents average per barrel amount for produced refined products sold, which is a non-gaap measure. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are located under reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. (6) subsequent to the formation of hep, transportation costs billed by hep are included in cost of products. (7) represents operating expenses of the refinery, exclusive of depreciation, depletion and amortization, and excludes refining segment expenses of product pipelines and terminals. navajo refining artesia, new mexico facility is located on a 561 acre site and is a fully integrated refinery with crude distillation, vacuum distillation, fcc, rose (solvent deasphalter), hf alkylation, catalytic reforming, hydrodesulfurization, isomerization, sulfur recovery and product blending units. other supporting infrastructure includes approximately 1.8 million barrels of feedstock and product tankage at the site, maintenance shops, warehouses and office buildings. the operating units at the artesia facility include newly constructed units, older units that have been relocated from other facilities and upgraded and re-erected in artesia, and units that have been operating as part of the artesia facility (with periodic major maintenance) for many years, in some very limited cases since before 1970. the artesia facility is operated in conjunction with an integrated refining facility located in lovington, new mexico, approximately 65 miles east of artesia. the principal equipment at the lovington facility consists of a crude distillation and associated vacuum distillation units which were originally constructed after 1970. the facility also has an additional 1.1 million barrels of feedstock and product tankage. the lovington facility processes crude oil into intermediate products, which are transported to artesia by means of two intermediate pipelines owned by hep and which are then upgraded into finished products at the artesia facility. the combined crude oil capacity of the two facilities is 83,000 bpsd and typically processes or blends an additional 10,000 bpsd of natural gasoline, butane, gas oil and naphtha. -10- table of contents we have approximately 800 miles of crude gathering pipelines transporting crude oil to the artesia and lovington facilities from various points in southeastern new mexico and west texas, 66 crude oil trucks and 67 trailers in addition to over 600 , 000 barrels of related tankage. we distribute refined products from the navajo refinery to markets in arizona, new mexico and west texas primarily through two of hep owned pipelines that extend from artesia, new mexico to el paso, texas. in addition, we use a pipeline leased by hep to transport petroleum products to markets in central and northwest new mexico. we have refined product storage through our pipelines and terminals agreement with hep at terminals in el paso, texas; tucson, arizona; and albuquerque, artesia, moriarty and bloomfield, new mexico. in 2000, we formed a joint venture, nk asphalt partners, with a subsidiary of koch materials company ( koch ) to manufacture and market asphalt and asphalt products in arizona and new mexico under the name koch asphalt solutions southwest. we contributed our asphalt terminal and asphalt blending and modification assets in arizona to nk asphalt partners and koch contributed its new mexico and arizona asphalt manufacturing and marketing assets to nk asphalt partners. on january 1, 2002, we sold a 1% equity interest in nk asphalt partners to koch, thereby reducing our equity interest from 50% to 49%. in february 2005, we purchased the 51% interest owned by koch in nk asphalt partners for $16.9 million plus working capital of approximately $5.0 million. this purchase increased our ownership in nk asphalt partners from 49% to 100%. following the purchase of the 51% interest from koch, nk asphalt partners does business under the name holly asphalt company. markets and competition the navajo refinery primarily serves the growing southwestern united states market, including el paso, texas; albuquerque, moriarty and bloomfield, new mexico; phoenix and tucson, arizona; and the northern mexico market. our products are shipped through hep pipelines from artesia, new mexico to el paso, texas and from el paso to albuquerque and to mexico via products pipeline systems owned by plains all american pipeline, l.p. ( plains ) and from el paso to tucson and phoenix via a products pipeline system owned by kinder morgan sfpp, l.p. ( sfpp ). in addition, the navajo refinery transports petroleum products to markets in northwest new mexico and to moriarty, new mexico, near albuquerque, via hep leased pipeline running from chaves county to san juan county, new mexico. el paso market the el paso market for refined products is currently supplied by a number of refiners and pipelines. refiners include navajo, conocophillips, valero, alon and western. pipelines serving this market include longhorn, magellan, and hep pipelines. we currently supply approximately 11,000 bpd to the el paso market, which accounts for approximately 18% of the refined products consumed in that market. arizona market the arizona market for refined products is currently supplied by a number of refiners via pipelines and trucks. refiners include companies located in west texas, eastern new mexico, northern new mexico, the gulf coast and west coast. we currently supply approximately 47,000 bpd of refined products into the arizona market, comprised primarily of phoenix and tucson, which accounts for approximately 16% of the refined products consumed in that market. new mexico markets the artesia, albuquerque, moriarty and bloomfield markets are supplied by a number of refiners via pipelines and trucks. refiners include navajo, valero, western, giant, alon and conocophillips. we currently supply approximately 21,000 bpd of refined products to the new mexico market, which accounts for approximately 20% of the refined products consumed in that market. the common carrier pipelines we use to serve the arizona and new mexico markets are currently operated at or near capacity and are subject to proration. as a result, the volumes of refined products that we and other shippers have been able to deliver to these markets have been limited. in 2006, sfpp completed an expansion of its pipeline from el paso to the arizona market. additionally, sfpp has announced a further planned expansion of the capacity of this pipeline from el paso to the arizona market, with an expected completion date of late 2007. we expect to maintain our market share of the 2007 sfpp expansion and ship additional volume to arizona when additional -11- table of contents capacity is available. however, we cannot presently predict the ultimate effects on us of sfpp proposed further pipeline expansion. the common carrier pipeline we use to serve the albuquerque market out of el paso currently operates at or near capacity with resulting limitations on the amount of refined products that we and other shippers can deliver. in addition, hep leases from enterprise products partners, l.p. a pipeline between white lakes, new mexico and the albuquerque vicinity and bloomfield, new mexico (the leased pipeline ). the lease agreement currently runs through 2017, and hep has options to renew for two ten-year periods. hep owns and operates a 12-inch pipeline from the navajo refinery to the leased pipeline as well as terminalling facilities in bloomfield, new mexico, which is located in the northwest corner of new mexico, and in moriarty, which is 40 miles east of albuquerque. these facilities permit us to provide a total of up to 45,000 bpd of light products to the growing albuquerque and santa fe, new mexico areas. if needed, additional pump stations could further increase the leased pipeline capabilities. the longhorn pipeline ( longhorn ) was recently purchased by flying j inc. ( flying j ) and is transporting refined products from gulf coast refineries to el paso. this pipeline is approximately 700 miles long and runs from the houston area to el paso, utilizing a direct route. the previous owner, longhorn partners pipeline, l.p., had announced that it would use the pipeline initially to transport approximately 72,000 bpd of refined products from the gulf coast to el paso and markets served from el paso, with an ultimate maximum capacity of 225,000 bpd. since inception of longhorn operations in late 2005, it is our understanding that there have been some shipments (substantially under the 72,000 bpd rate) of refined products. since the purchase by flying j, volumes shipped on longhorn have been increasing. we understand flying j is expanding the truck rack at its el paso terminal to increase truck loading capacity and has a large fleet of trucks serving markets as far away as arizona. flying j has significantly increased the volume of gulf coast refined products shipped into el paso and is actively exploring options to ship additional product on the sfpp system into arizona, the plains system into new mexico, and into mexico. an additional factor that could affect some of our markets is excess pipeline capacity from the west coast into our arizona markets. if refined products become available on the west coast in excess of demand in that market, additional products could be shipped into our arizona markets with resulting possible downward pressure on refined product prices in these markets. crude oil and feedstock supplies the navajo refinery is situated near the permian basin in an area which historically has had abundant supplies of crude oil available both for regional users, such as us, and for export to other areas. we purchase crude oil from producers in nearby southeastern new mexico and west texas and from major oil companies. crude oil is gathered both through our pipelines and tank trucks and through third party crude oil pipeline systems. in march 2003, we sold our iatan crude oil gathering system located in west texas to plains for a purchase price of $24.0 million in cash. in connection with the transaction, we have entered into a six and a half year agreement with plains that commits us to transport on that gathering system any crude oil we purchase in the relevant area of the iatan system at an agreed upon tariff. crude oil acquired in locations distant from the refinery is exchanged for crude oil that is transportable to the refinery. we also purchase isobutane, natural gasoline, and other feedstocks to supply the navajo refinery. in 2006, approximately 4,700 bpd of isobutane and 3,500 bpd of natural gasoline used in the navajo refinery operations were purchased from other oil companies in the region, as well as, volumes purchased from the mid-continent area and delivered to our region on an enterprise common carrier pipeline. ultimately all volumes of these products are shipped to the artesia refining facilities on hep two parallel 65-mile pipelines running from lovington to artesia. from time to time, we also purchase gas oil and naphtha from other oil companies for use as feedstock. principal products and customers set forth below is information regarding the principal products produced at the navajo refinery: -12- table of contents years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 navajo refinery sales of produced refined products: gasolines 60 % 59 % 59 % diesel fuels 28 % 27 % 26 % jet fuels 4 % 4 % 5 % asphalt 3 % 6 % 6 % lpg and other 5 % 4 % 4 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % light products are shipped by product pipelines or are made available at various points by exchanges with others. light products are also made available to customers through truck loading facilities at the refinery and at terminals. our principal customers for gasoline include other refiners, convenience store chains, independent marketers, an affiliate of pemex and retailers. our gasoline produced at the navajo refinery is marketed in the southwestern united states, including the metropolitan areas of el paso, phoenix, albuquerque, bloomfield, and tucson, and in portions of northern mexico. the composition of gasoline differs, because of local regulatory requirements, depending on the area in which gasoline is to be sold. diesel fuel is sold to other refiners, truck stop chains, wholesalers, and railroads. jet fuel is sold primarily for military use. all asphalt produced at the navajo refinery and third-party purchased asphalt is marketed through holly asphalt company to governmental entities or contractors. lpg are sold to lpg wholesalers and lpg retailers and carbon black oil is sold for further processing. military jet fuel is sold to the defense energy support center, a part of the united states department of defense (the desc ), under a series of one-year contracts that can vary significantly from year to year. we sold approximately 3,100 bpd of jet fuel to the desc in 2006. we have had a military jet fuel supply contract with the united states government for each of the last 37 years. our size in terms of employees and refining capacity allows us to bid for military jet fuel sales contracts under a small business set-aside program. in september 2006, desc awarded us contracts for sales of military jet fuel for the period october 1, 2006 through september 30, 2007. our total contract award, which is subject to adjustment based on actual needs of the desc for military jet fuel, was approximately 52 million gallons as compared to the total award for the 2005-2006 contract year of approximately 79 million gallons. the loss of our military jet fuel contract with the united states government could have an adverse effect on our results of operations if alternate commercial jet fuel or additional diesel fuel sales could not be secured. capital improvement projects we have invested significant amounts in capital expenditures in recent years to expand and enhance the navajo refinery and expand our supply and distribution network. in december 2005, we finished the installation of a refurbished 4,500 bpsd rose asphalt unit at the navajo refinery at a total cost of $17.1 million. this unit allows us to upgrade asphalt to higher valued gasoline and diesel. in 2006 we completed our ulsd project and an expansion of the crude capacity at the navajo refinery. these projects included the expansion and conversion of the distillate hydrotreater to gas oil service, the conversion of the gas oil hydrotreater to ulsd service, the expansion of the continuous catalytic reformer, the expansion and conversion of the kerosene hydrotreater to naphtha service, the installation of additional sulfur recovery capacity, and the installation of a 10 million standard cubic feet ( mmscf ) per day hydrogen plant. the completion of these projects has allowed us to produce all of our diesel fuel as ulsd and has expanded our crude oil processing capabilities from 75,000 bpsd to 83,000 bpsd. the total cost of these projects was approximately $75.0 million, which was approved in the prior year capital budget. we plan to further increase crude capacity to 85,000 bpsd by the end of 2007 by relocating some heat exchangers and replacing some pumps in the artesia crude unit at an estimated cost of $1.0 million. our board of directors approved a capital budget for 2007 of $24.7 million for refining improvement projects for the navajo refinery, not including the capital projects approved in prior years or our expansion and feedstock flexibility projects described below. -13- table of contents as announced in december 2006 we will be installing a new 15,000 bpd hydrocracker and a new 28 mmscf hydrogen plant at a budgeted cost of approximately $125.0 million. the addition of these units is expected to increase liquid volume recovery, increase the refinery capacity to process outside feedstocks, and increase yields of high valued products, as well as enabling the refinery to meet new low sulfur gasoline specifications required by the environmental protection agency ( epa ). the hydrocracker and hydrogen plant projects will provide improved heavy crude oil processing flexibility. as announced in february 2007, we will be revamping an existing crude unit which will increase crude capacity at the navajo refinery to approximately 100,000 bpd. additionally, our board of directors has approved a revamp of its second crude unit and a new solvent de-asphalter unit. the newly approved components, combined with the above described components approved in december, bring the total budgeted amount for this expansion and heavy crude oil processing project to $225.0 million. it is currently anticipated that the expansion portion of the overall project consisting of the initial crude unit revamp, the new hydrocracker and the new hydrogen plant will be completed and operational by the fourth quarter of 2008. the completion of the heavy crude oil processing portion of the overall project, including the second crude unit revamp and the installation of the new solvent de-asphalter, will be targeted to coincide with the development of future pipeline access to the navajo refinery for heavy canadian crude oil and other foreign heavy crude oils transported from the cushing, oklahoma area. we plan to explore with hep the most economical manner to obtain this needed pipeline access. also at the navajo refinery, a project to install an additional 100 ton per day sulfur recovery unit included in the 2006 capital budget is currently underway at an estimated cost of $26.0 million. approximately $2.0 million was spent on this project in 2006. this new sulfur recovery unit will permit our navajo refinery to process 100% sour crude and is planned for start-up in the third quarter of 2008. it is anticipated that the projects that will be completed by the fourth quarter of 2008 will also enable the navajo refinery, without significant additional investment, to comply with lsg specifications required by the end of 2010. woods cross refinery on june 1, 2003 we acquired the woods cross refinery, located near salt lake city, utah, and related assets, from conocophillips. the purchase also included a refined products terminal in spokane, washington, a 50% ownership interest in refined products terminals in boise and burley, idaho, 25 retail service stations located in utah and wyoming, and a 10-year exclusive license to market fuels under the phillips 66 brand in the states of utah, wyoming, idaho and montana. the total cash purchase price, including inventory and related expenses and liabilities assumed was $58.3 million. in accounting for the purchase, we recorded inventory of $35.5 million, property, plant and equipment of $25.6 million, intangible assets of $1.6 million and recorded a $4.4 million liability, principally for pension obligations. in august 2003, we sold the 25 retail service stations for $7.0 million, less our prorated share of property taxes and certain transaction expenses, plus $1.8 million for inventories, resulting in net cash proceeds of $8.5 million. we continue to supply the retail stations with fuel from our woods cross refinery under a long-term supply agreement. facilities the woods cross refinery is being operated by holly refining marketing company woods cross, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries. beginning in january 2005 the crude oil capacity of the refinery was increased from 25,000 bpsd to 26,000 bpsd as a result of continued improvements and advancements at the refinery. the woods cross refinery is located in woods cross, utah and processes regional sweet and black wax crude as well as canadian sour crude oils into high value light products. for 2006, gasoline, diesel and jet fuel (excluding volumes purchased for resale) represented 63%, 28% and 2%, respectively, of the woods cross refinery sales volumes. the following table sets forth information about the woods cross refinery operations, including non-gaap performance measures about our refinery operations. the cost of products and refinery gross margin do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. -14- table of contents years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 woods cross refinery crude charge (bpd) (1) 23,640 24,100 23,620 refinery production (bpd) (2) 25,190 25,850 23,730 sales of produced refined products (bpd) 25,150 26,390 23,520 sales of refined products (bpd) (3) 26,210 27,710 24,160 refinery utilization (4) 90.9 % 92.7 % 94.5 % average per produced barrel (5) net sales $ 82.09 $ 69.13 $ 51.33 cost of products (6) 64.99 59.51 45.33 refinery gross margin 17.10 9.62 6.00 refinery operating expenses (7) 5.13 4.61 3.92 net operating margin $ 11.97 $ 5.01 $ 2.08 feedstocks: sour crude oil 2 % 8 % 7 % sweet crude oil 89 % 82 % 88 % other feedstocks and blends 9 % 10 % 5 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) crude charge represents the barrels per day of crude oil processed at the refinery. (2) refinery production represents the barrels per day of refined products yielded from processing crude and other feedstocks at the refinery. (3) includes refined products purchased for resale. (4) represents crude charge divided by total crude capacity (bpsd). (5) represents average per barrel amount for produced refined products sold, which is a non-gaap measure. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are located under reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. (6) subsequent to the formation of hep, transportation costs billed from hep are included in cost of products. (7) represents operating expenses of the refinery, exclusive of depreciation, depletion and amortization, and excludes refining segment expenses of product pipelines and terminals. the woods cross refinery facility is located on a 200 acre site and is a fully integrated refinery with crude distillation, solvent deasphalter, fcc, hf alkylation, catalytic reforming, hydrodesulfurization, isomerization, sulfur recovery, and product blending units. other supporting infrastructure includes approximately 1.5 million barrels of feedstock and product tankage, maintenance shops, warehouses and office buildings. the operating units at the woods cross facility include newly constructed units, older units that have been relocated from other facilities, upgraded and re-erected in woods cross, and units that have been operating as part of the woods cross facility (with periodic major maintenance) for many years, in some very limited cases since before 1950. the crude oil capacity of the woods cross facility is 26,000 bpsd and the facility typically processes or blends an additional 2,000 bpsd of natural gasoline, butane, and gas oil. we operate approximately 5 miles of crude, refined products and hydrogen pipelines that allow us to connect our woods cross refinery to common carrier pipeline systems and to a hydrogen plant located at chevron salt lake refinery. markets and competition the woods cross refinery is one of five refineries located in utah. we estimate that the four refineries that compete with our woods cross refinery have a combined capacity to process approximately 146,000 bpd of crude oil. the five utah refineries collectively supply an estimated 70% of the gasoline and distillate products consumed in the states of utah and idaho, with the remainder imported from refineries in wyoming and montana via the pioneer pipeline owned jointly by sinclair and conocophillips. the woods cross refinery primary markets include utah, idaho, nevada and wyoming. approximately 65% of the gasoline and diesel fuel produced by our woods cross refinery are sold through a network of phillip 66 branded marketers. -15- table of contents utah market the utah market for refined products is currently supplied by a number of refiners and the pioneer pipeline. refiners include woods cross, chevron, tesoro, big west, silver eagle, sinclair, and conocophillips. pipelines include pioneer. we currently supply approximately 16,000 bpd of refined products into the utah market, which represents approximately 15% of the refined products consumed in that market, to branded and unbranded customers. idaho, wyoming, eastern washington and nevada markets the idaho, wyoming, washington and nevada markets for refined products are also currently supplied by a number of refiners and pipelines. refiners include woods cross, chevron, tesoro, big west, silver eagle, sinclair, conocophillips and exxon. pipelines include chevron and yellowstone common carrier pipelines. we currently supply approximately 7,500 bpd of refined products into the idaho, wyoming, washington and nevada markets, which represents approximately 2% of the refined products consumed in those markets. woods cross ships via common carrier pipeline to numerous terminals, including hep terminals at boise and burley, idaho and spokane, washington, and sells to branded and unbranded customers. we also truck refined products to nevada. principal products and customers set forth below is information regarding the principal products produced at the woods cross refinery since our acquisition in june 2003. years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 woods cross refinery sales of produced refined products: gasolines 63 % 60 % 59 % diesel fuels 28 % 29 % 31 % jet fuels 2 % 2 % 1 % fuel oils 5 % 7 % 7 % lpg and other 2 % 2 % 2 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % light products are shipped by product pipelines or are made available at various points by exchanges with others. light products are also made available to customers through truck loading facilities at the refinery and at terminals. our principal customers for gasoline include other refiners, convenience store chains, independent marketers and retailers. the composition of gasoline differs, due to local regulatory requirements, depending on the area in which gasoline is to be sold. diesel fuel is sold to other refiners, truck stop chains, and wholesalers. jet fuel is sold primarily for military use. all asphalt produced is blended to fuel oil and sold locally, railed to the gulf coast or marketed through holly asphalt company to governmental entities or contractors. lpg are sold to lpg wholesalers and lpg retailers. military jet fuel is sold to the desc under a series of one-year contracts that can vary significantly from year to year. we sold approximately 500 bpd of jet fuel to the desc in 2006. our size in terms of employees and refining capacity allows us to bid for military jet fuel sales contracts under a small business set-aside program. in september 2006, desc awarded us contracts for sales of military jet fuel for the period october 1, 2006 through september 30, 2007. our total contract award, which is subject to adjustment based on actual needs of the desc for military jet fuel, was approximately 8 million gallons as compared to the total award for the 2005-2006 contract year of approximately 2 million gallons. the loss of our military jet fuel contract with the united states government could have an adverse effect on our results of operations if alternate commercial jet fuel or additional diesel fuel sales could not be secured. crude oil and feedstock supplies the woods cross refinery currently obtains its supply of crude oil primarily from suppliers in canada, wyoming, utah and colorado via common carrier pipelines, which originate in canada, wyoming and colorado. -16- table of contents on february 27, 2007, we entered into a definitive agreement with berry petroleum company to purchase black wax crude oil for six years, effective july 1, 2007. we have committed to purchase an initial volume of 3,200 bpd, increasing to 5,000 bpd upon completion of certain capacity expansion projects at our woods cross refinery. pricing will be calculated at a discount from then-prevailing market rates. capital improvement projects in 2006 we completed a clean fuels project at the woods cross refinery. the project included the construction of a diesel hydrotreater unit, at an approximate cost of $35.0 million, which was approved in prior years, and entered into a long-term hydrogen supply contract that has enabled the woods cross refinery to produce ulsd. our approved capital budget for 2007 capital projects at the woods cross refinery is $9.7 million not including the major projects described below or other capital projects approved in prior years. as announced in december 2006, we will be adding a new 15,000 bpd hydrocracker along with sulfur recovery and desalting equipment at our woods cross refinery. the budgeted cost of these additions is approximately $100.0 million. these additions will expand the woods cross refinery crude processing capabilities from 26,000 bpd to 31,000 bpd while enabling the refinery to process up to 10,000 bpd of high-value low-priced black wax crude oil and up to 5,000 bpd of low-priced heavy canadian crude oils. this expansion project as approved involves a higher capital investment than had originally been estimated, principally because of the substitution of a complex hydrocracker in place of certain desulfurization and expanded bottoms-processing modifications that had been included in preliminary planning. the substitution of the complex hydrocracker is expected to provide increased capabilities to process significantly more black wax crude oils, which have recently been priced at substantial discounts to west texas intermediate crude oil while yielding substantially higher value products than the discounted heavy canadian crudes that were a more significant part of the original plan. these additions would also increase the refinery capacity to process low-cost feedstocks and provide the necessary infrastructure for future expansions of crude oil refining capacity at the woods cross refinery. the approved projects for the woods cross refinery are expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of 2008. to fully take advantage of the economics on the woods cross expansion project, additional crude pipeline capacity will be required to move canadian crude to the woods cross refinery. in february 2007, hep entered into a letter of intent with plains under which hep will own a 25% interest in a new 95 mile intrastate pipeline system, now being constructed by plains, which will have the capacity to ship up to 120,000 bpd of crude oil into the salt lake city area. additionally, we are also working with hep to evaluate a refined products pipeline from salt lake city to las vegas. the current estimated cost of this pipeline is expected to be approximately $235.0 million, and the total cost of the project including terminals is expected to be approximately $300.0 million. holly energy partners, l.p. in july 2004, we completed the initial public offering of limited partnership interests in hep, a delaware limited partnership that also trades on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol hep . hep was formed to acquire, own and operate substantially all of the refined product pipeline and terminalling assets that support our refining and marketing operations in west texas, new mexico, utah and arizona and a 70% interest in rio grande. on february 28, 2005, hep closed on a contribution agreement with alon and several of its wholly-owned subsidiaries that provided for hep acquisition of four refined products pipelines, an associated tank farm and two refined products terminals located primarily in texas. on july 8, 2005, we closed on a transaction for hep to acquire our two 65-mile parallel intermediate feedstock pipelines which connect our lovington and artesia, new mexico facilities, a transaction which diluted our ownership interest in hep to 45.0%. we initially consolidated the results of hep and showed the interest we did not own as a minority interest in ownership and earnings. under the provisions of fin 46, we have deconsolidated hep effective july 1, 2005. from july 1, 2005 forward, our share of the earnings of hep is reported using the equity method of accounting. for additional information about the formation of hep and the subsequent alon and intermediate pipelines transactions, see note 3 in the notes to consolidated financial statements under item 8, financial statements and supplementary data. hep operates a system of petroleum pipelines and distribution terminals in texas, new mexico, utah, arizona, idaho, washington and oklahoma. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products -17- table of contents through its pipelines, by leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, by charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep does not take ownership of products that it transports or terminals and therefore is not directly exposed to changes in commodity prices. hep serves our refineries in new mexico and utah under a 15-year pipelines and terminals agreement ( hep pta ) expiring 2019 and the 15-year intermediate pipelines agreement expiring 2020 ( hep ipa ). the agreements provide that we transport or terminal volumes on certain of hep facilities that will result in minimum annual payments to hep, currently $38.5 million under the hep pta and $12.4 million under the hep ipa. in addition, we have agreed to indemnify hep, subject to certain limits, for any historical environmental noncompliance and remediation liabilities. the substantial majority of hep business is devoted to providing transportation and terminalling services to us. hep assets include: pipelines: approximately 780 miles of refined product pipelines, including 340 miles of leased pipelines, that transport gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel principally from our navajo refinery in new mexico to our customers in the metropolitan and rural areas of texas, new mexico, arizona, colorado, utah and northern mexico; approximately 510 miles of refined product pipelines that transport refined products from alon big spring refinery in texas to customers in texas and oklahoma; two parallel 65-mile pipelines that transport intermediate feedstocks and crude oil from our lovington, new mexico refinery facilities to our artesia, new mexico refining facilities; and a 70% interest in rio grande, a joint venture that owns a 249-mile refined product pipeline that transports liquid petroleum gases, or lpg s, from west texas to the texas/mexico border near el paso for further transport into northern mexico. refined product terminals: five refined product terminals (one of which is 50% owned), located in el paso, texas; moriarty, bloomfield and albuquerque, new mexico; and tucson, arizona, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 1.1 million barrels, that are integrated with hep refined product pipeline system that serves our navajo refinery; three refined product terminals (two of which are 50% owned), located in burley and boise, idaho and spokane, washington, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 500,000 barrels, that serve third-party common carrier pipelines; one refined product terminal near mountain home, idaho with a capacity of 120,000 barrels, that serves a nearby united states air force base; two refined product terminals, located in wichita falls and abilene, texas, and one tank farm in orla, texas with aggregate capacity of 480,000 barrels, that are integrated with hep refined product pipelines that serve alon big spring, texas refinery; and two refined product truck loading racks, one located within our navajo refinery that is permitted to load over 40,000 bpd of light refined products, and one located within our woods cross refinery near salt lake city, utah, that is permitted to load over 25,000 bpd of light refined products. pipeline transportation business prior to the initial public offering of hep on july 13, 2004, certain of our pipelines and terminals were included as part of the pipeline transportation business division. after the offering, the pipelines and terminals that remained became part of the refining business division. in years prior to the initial public offering of hep, we developed the pipeline transportation business to generate revenues from unaffiliated parties. the pipeline transportation operations included certain refined product pipelines, the interest in rio grande and terminalling agreements that were contributed to hep along with certain crude oil pipelines that were not contributed to hep. the following paragraphs provide historic information relating to the assets that were previously included in our pipeline transportation division. rio grande is 70% owned by hep and 30% owned by bp p.l.c., and serves northern mexico by transporting lpg from a point near odessa, texas to a subsidiary of pemex at a point near el paso, texas. the pemex subsidiary then transports the lpg to its mendez terminal near juarez, mexico. deliveries by the joint venture began in april 1997. prior to the initial public offering of hep on july 13, 2004, rio grande was owned 70% by us and 30% by -18- table of contents bp p.l.c. prior to june 30, 2003, rio grande was owned 25% by us and 75% collectively by two parties unaffiliated with us. on june 30, 2003, we purchased an additional 45% interest in rio grande, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, adding to the 25% interest that our subsidiary already owned. in 1998, we implemented an alliance with fina, inc. ( fina ) to create a comprehensive supply network to substantially increase the supplies of gasoline and diesel fuel in the west texas, new mexico, and arizona markets to meet expected increasing demand in the future. fina constructed a 50 mile pipeline that connected an existing fina pipeline system to our 12-inch/8-inch pipeline between orla and el paso, texas. in august 1998, fina began transporting to el paso, pursuant to a long-term lease of certain capacity of our 12-inch pipeline, gasoline and diesel fuel from its big spring, texas refinery, and we began to realize pipeline rental and terminalling revenues from fina under these agreements. in august 2000, alon succeeded to fina interest in this alliance. effective from february 2002, alon transports up to 20,000 bpd to el paso on this interconnected system. in the second quarter of fiscal 2000, we acquired certain crude oil pipeline transportation and storage assets located in west texas and new mexico in an asset exchange with arco pipeline company. the acquired assets, including 100 miles of pipelines and over 250,000 barrels of tankage, allow us to transport crude oil for unaffiliated companies and increase our ability to access additional crude oil for the navajo refinery. additional operations and other information corporate offices we lease our principal corporate offices in dallas, texas. the lease for our principal corporate offices expires june 30, 2011, requires lease payments of approximately $137,000 per month plus certain operating expenses and provides for one five-year renewal period. functions performed in the dallas office include overall corporate management, refinery and hep management, planning and strategy, corporate finance, crude acquisition, logistics, contract administration, marketing, investor relations, governmental affairs and accounting, tax, treasury, information technology, legal and human resources support functions. exploration and production we conduct a small-scale oil and gas exploration and production program. we have not budgeted any significant amounts for these activities in 2007. other investments prior to february 28, 2005, we had a 49% interest in mrc hi-noon llc, a joint venture operating retail service stations and convenience stores in montana, and we accounted for our share of earnings from the joint venture using the equity method. at december 31, 2004, we had a reserve balance of approximately $0.8 million related to the collectability of advances to the joint venture and related accrued interest. on february 28, 2005, we sold our 49% interest to our joint venture partner and agreed to accept partial payment on the advances we previously made to the joint venture. in connection with this transaction, we received $0.8 million, which resulted in a book gain to us of $0.5 million. employees and labor relations as of december 31, 2006, we had 859 employees, of which 295 are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire during 2009 and 2010. we consider our employee relations to be good. -19- table of contents regulation refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of matter into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. over the years, there have been and continue to be ongoing communications, including notices of violations, and discussions about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. we believe that our current operations are in substantial compliance with existing environmental laws, regulations and permits. our operations and many of the products we manufacture are subject to certain specific requirements of the federal clean air act ( caa ) and related state and local regulations. the caa contains provisions that require capital expenditures for the installation of certain air pollution control devices at our refineries. subsequent rule making authorized by the caa or similar laws or new agency interpretations of existing rules, may necessitate additional expenditures in future years. in december 2001, we entered into an agreement for a consent decree ( consent agreement ) with the epa and the new mexico environment department of environmental quality with respect to a global settlement of issues concerning the application of air quality requirements to past and future operations of our navajo refinery. the consent agreement requires us to make investments at our navajo refinery for the installation of certain state of the art pollution control equipment currently expected to total approximately $14.0 million over a period expected to end in 2010, of which approximately $13.1 million has been expended to date. the epa and the state of utah have asserted that we have caa liabilities relating to our woods cross refinery because of actions taken or not taken by prior owners of the woods cross refinery, which we purchased from conocophillips in june 2003. we have tentatively agreed with the epa and the state of utah to settle the issues presented by means of an agreement similar to the 2001 consent agreement we entered into for our navajo and montana refineries. the tentative settlement agreement, which has not yet been put into a final written agreement, includes proposed obligations for us to make specified additional capital investments expected to total up to approximately $10.0 million over several years and to make changes in operating procedures at the refinery. the agreements for the purchase of the woods cross refinery provide that conocophillips will indemnify us, subject to specified limitations, for environmental claims arising from circumstances prior to our purchase of the refinery. we believe that, in the present circumstances, the amount due to us from conocophillips under the agreements for the purchase of the woods cross refinery would be approximately $1.4 million with respect to the tentative settlement. under the caa, the epa has the authority to modify the formulation of the refined transportation fuel products we manufacture in order to limit the emissions associated with their final use. for example, in december 1999, the epa promulgated national regulations limiting the amount of sulfur allowable in gasoline. the new regulations required the phase-in of gasoline sulfur standards beginning in 2004, with special provisions for small refiners and for refiners serving those western states exhibiting lesser air quality problems. subsequently, the epa promulgated regulations further limiting the sulfur content of highway fuel to 15 ppm. the epa believes such limits are necessary to protect new automobile emission control systems that may be inhibited by sulfur in the fuel. in june 2004, the epa issued new regulations limiting emissions from diesel fuel powered engines used in non-road activities such as mining, construction, agriculture, railroad and marine and simultaneously limiting the sulfur content of diesel fuel used in these engines to facilitate compliance with the new emission standards. although the highway and non-road diesel sulfur regulations provided for a timed phase-in of the low sulfur requirements with extended compliance dates for small refiners such as us, both of our refineries met the ultimate 15 ppm standard for both our non-road and highway diesel fuel by june 1, 2006, the earliest deadline for large refiners. this entailed substantial capital expenditures; however, these capital expenditures would have been required later. our early compliance with this initiative enabled us to obtain additional small refiner extensions on the low sulfur gasoline requirements. we are currently reviewing a new epa regulation on gasoline that would impose further reductions in the benzene content of our produced gasoline and another epa regulation, currently under development, that would mandate the -20- table of contents blending of prescribed, substantial percentages of renewable fuels (i.e. ethanol) into our produced gasoline. both of these initiatives contain mitigating provisions for small refiners such as us. these new requirements, other requirements of the caa, and other presently existing or future environmental regulations may cause us to make substantial capital expenditures to enable our refineries to produce products that meet applicable requirements. our operations are also subject to the federal clean water act ( cwa ), the federal safe drinking water act ( sdwa ) and comparable state and local requirements. the cwa, the sdwa and analogous laws prohibit any discharge into surface waters, ground waters and publicly-owned treatment works except in strict conformance with permits, such as pre-treatment permits and national pollutant discharge elimination system ( npdes ) permits, issued by federal, state and local governmental agencies. npdes permits and analogous water discharge permits are valid for a maximum of five years and must be renewed. we generate wastes that may be subject to the resource conservation and recovery act and comparable state and local requirements. the epa and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ( cercla ), also known as superfund, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment. analogous state laws impose similar responsibilities and liabilities on responsible parties. in the course of our historical operations, as well as in our current normal operations, we have generated waste, some of which falls within the statutory definition of a hazardous substance and some of which may have been disposed of at sites that may require cleanup under superfund. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed of. we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries, including those discussed above. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our refineries and at pipeline transportation facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. we cannot predict what additional health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. -21- table of contents insurance our operations are subject to normal hazards of operations, including fire, explosion and weather-related perils. we maintain various insurance coverages, including business interruption insurance, subject to certain deductibles. we are not fully insured against certain risks because such risks are not fully insurable, coverage is unavailable, or premium costs, in our judgment, do not justify such expenditures. item 1a. risk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, by competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve and by factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. in addition, our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results therefore depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flows. we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our -22- table of contents control. these projects may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, a component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. we may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may or may not produce the results intended. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of matter into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. over the years, there have been and continue to be ongoing communications, including notices of violations, and discussions about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed of. we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. -23- table of contents we cannot predict what additional health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of the refining industry. we are not engaged in any significant petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. if we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, both within and outside of our industry, there could be material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. other refiners could expand existing facilities or build new ones in our markets and significantly affect our profitability. for example, arizona clean fuels yuma, llc has obtained a permit to construct a 150,000 bpd refinery in arizona and is currently seeking financing for that project. another example is the proposed merger of western refining, inc. and giant industries, inc., who are considering utilizing currently idle refining capacity in the four corners area of new mexico. we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers. the renewal or replacement of existing sales agreements with our customers depends on a number of factors outside our control, including competition from other refiners and the demand for refined products in the markets that we serve. loss of, or reduction in amounts purchased by our major customers could have an adverse effect on us to the extent that, because of market limitations or transportation constraints, we are not able to correspondingly increase sales to other purchasers. a material decrease in the supply of crude oil available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels. in order to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for new crude oil supplies. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional -24- table of contents supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. the potential operation of new refined product transportation pipelines or proration of existing pipelines could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets, including el paso, albuquerque and phoenix. the longhorn pipeline was recently purchased by flying j inc. ( flying j ) and is transporting refined products from gulf coast refineries to el paso. this pipeline is approximately 700 miles long and runs from the houston area to el paso, utilizing a direct route. the previous owner, longhorn partners pipeline, l.p., had announced that it would use the pipeline initially to transport approximately 72,000 bpd of refined products from the gulf coast to el paso and markets served from el paso, with an ultimate maximum capacity of 225,000 bpd. since inception of longhorn operations in late 2005, it is our understanding that there have been some shipments (substantially under the 72,000 bpd rate) of refined products. since the purchase by flying j, volumes shipped on longhorn have been increasing. we understand flying j is expanding the truck rack at its el paso terminal to increase truck loading capacity and has a large fleet of trucks serving markets as far away as arizona. flying j has significantly increased the volume of gulf coast refined products shipped into el paso and is actively exploring options to ship additional product on the sfpp system into arizona, the plains system into new mexico, and into mexico. however, any effects on our markets in tucson and phoenix, arizona and albuquerque, new mexico are expected to be limited in the near-term because current common carrier pipelines from el paso to these markets are now running at capacity and proration policies of these pipelines allocate only limited capacity to new shippers. plains, which acquired from chevron in 2006 the common carrier pipeline from el paso to albuquerque, is currently evaluating an expansion of this pipeline dependent upon support of its existing and potential shippers. in august 2006, sfpp expanded the capacity of its pipeline from el paso to the arizona market by between 45,000 and 50,000 bpd. sfpp announced a further planned expansion of the capacity of this pipeline from el paso to the arizona market by 23,000 bpd, with an expected completion date at the end of 2007 or first quarter of 2008. although our results of operations might be adversely impacted by longhorn, the expansions of the plains pipeline, or the further expansion of sfpp el paso-to-arizona pipeline, we are unable to predict at this time the extent to which we could be negatively affected. an additional factor that could affect some of our markets is the presence of excess pipeline capacity from the west coast into our arizona markets. if refined products become available on the west coast in excess of demand in that market, additional products may be shipped into our arizona markets with resulting possible downward pressure on refined product prices in these markets. in addition to the projects described above, other projects have been explored from time to time by refiners and other entities which if completed, could result in further increases in the supply of products to our markets. the common carrier pipelines we use to serve the arizona and albuquerque markets are currently operated at or near capacity and are subject to proration. as a result, the volumes of refined products that we and other shippers have been able to deliver to these markets have been limited. the flow of additional products into el paso for shipment to arizona, either as a result of longhorn or otherwise, could further exacerbate such constraints on our deliveries to arizona. no assurances can be given that we will not experience future constraints on our ability to deliver products through the common carrier pipeline to arizona. any future constraints on our ability to transport refined products to arizona could, if sustained, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. as mentioned above, sfpp has announced plans to expand the capacity of its pipeline from el paso to the arizona market. the proposed expansion would permit us to ship additional refined products to markets in arizona, but pipeline tariffs would likely be higher and the expansion would also permit additional shipments by competing suppliers. the ultimate effects of sfpp proposed pipeline expansion on us cannot presently be estimated. in the case of the albuquerque market, the common carrier pipeline we use to serve this market out of el paso currently operates at or near capacity with resulting limitations on the amount of refined products that we and other shippers can deliver. however, through our relationship with hep, we have access to pipelines running from near the navajo refinery to the albuquerque vicinity and bloomfield, new mexico, that will permit us to deliver a total of up to 45,000 bpd of light products to these locations, thereby eliminating the risk of future pipeline constraints on shipments to albuquerque. if needed, additional pump stations could further increase hep pipeline -25- table of contents capabilities. any future constraints on our ability to transport refined products to arizona or albuquerque could, if sustained, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information on competition in our markets due to new product transportation pipelines or proration of existing pipelines, see markets and competition under the navajo refinery discussion under items 1 and 2, business and properties. we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the distribution network for our refined products and we own a significant equity interest in hep. we currently own a 45% interest in hep, including the 2% general partner interest. hep operates a system of refined product pipelines and distribution terminals in texas, new mexico, utah, arizona, idaho, washington and oklahoma. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting refined products through its pipelines, by leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, by charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves our refineries in new mexico and utah under two 15 year pipelines and terminals agreements expiring in 2019 and 2020. the agreements provide that we transport or terminal volumes on certain of hep facilities that result in revenues to hep at least equal to specified minimum revenue amounts annually. furthermore, through our 45% ownership of hep, we record our share of hep earnings and receive distributions from hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on its significant customers, including us, competition from other pipelines, environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations, operational hazards and risks, pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge, limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep debt covenants, and other financial, operational and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks adversely impacting hep could affect our distribution system or the earnings and cash flows we receive from hep and thereby adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in our operations. we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased, and could increase further. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. if we lose any of our key personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of -26- table of contents members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. we are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on september 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are not known at this time. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs to our business. uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income plus (i) interest expense net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation, depletion and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. we are reporting ebitda only from continuing operations. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda from continuing operations. years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in thousands) income from continuing operations $ 246,898 $ 164,026 $ 82,925 add provision for income tax 136,603 99,626 54,004 add interest expense 1,076 5,101 3,524 subtract interest income (9,757 ) (6,901 ) (4,369 ) add depreciation, depletion and amortization 39,721 40,547 37,457 ebitda from continuing operations $ 414,541 $ 302,399 $ 173,541 reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. we calculate refinery gross margin and net operating margin using net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold. these two margins do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. -50- table of contents refinery gross margin refinery gross margin per barrel is the difference between average net sales price and average cost of products per barrel of produced refined products. refinery gross margin for each of our refineries and for all of our refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery net sales $ 79.62 $ 69.11 $ 51.42 less cost of products 64.25 55.50 41.26 refinery gross margin $ 15.37 $ 13.61 $ 10.16 woods cross refinery net sales $ 82.09 $ 69.13 $ 51.33 less cost of products 64.99 59.51 45.33 refinery gross margin $ 17.10 $ 9.62 $ 6.00 consolidated net sales $ 80.21 $ 69.12 $ 51.40 less cost of products 64.43 56.50 42.20 refinery gross margin $ 15.78 $ 12.62 $ 9.20 net operating margin net operating margin per barrel is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel of produced refined products. net operating margin for each of our refineries and for all of our refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery refinery gross margin $ 15.37 $ 13.61 $ 10.16 less refinery operating expenses 4.74 3.94 3.20 net operating margin $ 10.63 $ 9.67 $ 6.96 woods cross refinery refinery gross margin $ 17.10 $ 9.62 $ 6.00 less refinery operating expenses 5.13 4.61 3.92 net operating margin $ 11.97 $ 5.01 $ 2.08 consolidated refinery gross margin $ 15.78 $ 12.62 $ 9.20 less refinery operating expenses 4.83 4.11 3.37 net operating margin $ 10.95 $ 8.51 $ 5.83 -51- table of contents below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for (i) net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold, and (ii) net operating margin and refinery gross margin. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. reconciliations of refined product sales from produced products sold to total sales and other revenue years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 navajo refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 79.62 $ 69.11 $ 51.42 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 79,940 80,110 78,880 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 2,323,160 $ 2,020,787 $ 1,484,500 woods cross refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 82.09 $ 69.13 $ 51.33 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 25,150 26,390 23,520 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 753,566 $ 665,884 $ 441,865 sum of refined product sales from produced products sold from our two refineries (4) $ 3,076,726 $ 2,686,671 $ 1,926,365 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 480,641 273,608 163,173 total refined products sales 3,557,367 2,960,279 2,089,538 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 323,002 add other refining segment revenue (3) 141,605 68,056 15,031 total refining segment revenue 4,021,974 3,028,335 2,104,569 add hep sales and other revenue 36,034 28,182 add corporate and other revenues 1,752 1,772 1,916 subtract consolidations and eliminations (509 ) (19,828 ) (18,422 ) sales and other revenues $ 4,023,217 $ 3,046,313 $ 2,116,245 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil and enter into buy/sell exchanges in excess of the needs to supply our refineries. certain direct sales of this excess crude oil are made to purchasers or users of crude oil. under new accounting guidance, these sales and related purchases starting april 1, 2006 are being measured at fair value and accounted for as revenues with the related acquisition costs included as cost of products sold. prior to april 1, 2006, sales and cost of sales attributable to such excess crude oil direct sales were netted and presented in cost of products sold. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the incremental revenues associated with nk asphalt partners subsequent to its consolidation in february 2005 and revenue derived from sulfur credit sales. (4) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 average sales prices per produced barrel sold $ 80.21 $ 69.12 $ 51.40 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 105,090 106,500 102,400 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 3,076,726 $ 2,686,671 $ 1,926,365 -52- table of contents reconciliation of average cost of products per produced barrel sold to total costs of products sold years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 navajo refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 64.25 $ 55.50 $ 41.26 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 79,940 80,110 78,880 times number of days in period 365 365 366 cost of products for produced products sold $ 1,874,693 $ 1,622,828 $ 1,191,180 woods cross refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 64.99 $ 59.51 $ 45.33 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 25,150 26,390 23,520 times number of days in period 365 365 366 cost of products for produced products sold $ 596,592 $ 573,221 $ 390,215 sum of cost of products for produced products sold from our two refineries (4) $ 2,471,285 $ 2,196,049 $ 1,581,395 add refined product costs from purchased products sold, certain hedging gains and rounding (1) 473,903 274,948 165,572 total refined cost of products sold 2,945,188 2,470,997 1,746,967 add crude oil cost of direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 323,337 add other refining segment costs of products sold (3) 81,388 47,641 total refining segment cost of products sold 3,349,913 2,518,638 1,746,967 add corporate and other costs subtract consolidations and eliminations (509 ) (19,828 ) (18,422 ) costs of products sold (exclusive of depreciation, depletion and amortization) $ 3,349,404 $ 2,498,810 $ 1,728,545 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments. additionally during 2005, we entered into petroleum futures transactions hedging forecasted diesel fuel sales. the positions were fully liquidated during august to november 2005 resulting in gains of $3.2 million for the year ending december 31, 2005, which are recorded as a reduction in cost of products sold. (2) we purchase crude oil and enter into buy/sell exchanges in excess of the needs to supply our refineries. certain direct sales of this excess crude oil are made to purchasers or users of crude oil. under new accounting guidance, these sales and related purchases starting april 1, 2006 are being measured at fair value and accounted for as revenues with the related acquisition costs included as cost of products sold. prior to april 1, 2006, sales and cost of sales attributable to such excess crude oil direct sales were netted and presented in cost of products sold. (3) other refining segment costs of products sold includes the incremental costs of products for nk asphalt partners subsequent to its consolidation in february 2005 and costs attributable to sulfur credit sales. (4) the above calculations of costs of products from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 64.43 $ 56.50 $ 42.20 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 105,090 106,500 102,400 times number of days in period 365 365 366 cost of products for produced products sold $ 2,471,285 $ 2,196,049 $ 1,581,395 -53- table of contents reconciliation of average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 navajo refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 4.74 $ 3.94 $ 3.20 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 79,940 80,110 78,880 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 138,304 $ 115,206 $ 92,384 woods cross refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 5.13 $ 4.61 $ 3.92 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 25,150 26,390 23,520 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 47,092 $ 44,405 $ 33,745 sum of refinery operating expenses per produced products sold from our two refineries (2) $ 185,396 $ 159,611 $ 126,129 add other refining segment operating expenses and rounding (1) 23,015 20,545 18,486 total refining segment operating expenses 208,411 180,156 144,615 add hep operating expenses 11,836 10,103 add corporate and other costs 49 59 166 operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation, depletion and amortization) $ 208,460 $ 192,051 $ 154,884 (1) other refining segment operating expenses include the marketing costs associated with our refining segment and the incremental operating expenses of nk asphalt partners subsequent to its consolidation in february 2005 and the operating expenses during 2004 of terminal and pipeline assets now owned by hep. (2) the above calculations of refinery operating expenses from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 4.83 $ 4.11 $ 3.37 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 105,090 106,500 102,400 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 185,396 $ 159,611 $ 126,129 reconciliation of net operating margin per barrel to refinery gross margin per barrel to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 navajo refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 10.63 $ 9.67 $ 6.96 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 4.74 3.94 3.20 refinery gross margin per barrel 15.37 13.61 10.16 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 64.25 55.50 41.26 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 79.62 $ 69.11 $ 51.42 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 79,940 80,110 78,880 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 2,323,160 $ 2,020,787 $ 1,484,500 -54- table of contents years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 woods cross refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 11.97 $ 5.01 $ 2.08 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 5.13 4.61 3.92 refinery gross margin per barrel 17.10 9.62 6.00 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 64.99 59.51 45.33 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 82.09 $ 69.13 $ 51.33 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 25,150 26,390 23,520 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 753,566 $ 665,884 $ 441,865 sum of refined product sales from produced products sold from our two refineries (4) $ 3,076,726 $ 2,686,671 $ 1,926,365 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 480,641 273,608 163,173 total refined product sales 3,557,367 2,960,279 2,089,538 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 323,002 add other refining segment revenue (3) 141,605 68,056 15,031 total refining segment revenue 4,021,974 3,028,335 2,104,569 add hep sales and other revenues 36,034 28,182 add corporate and other revenues 1,752 1,772 1,916 subtract consolidations and eliminations (509 ) (19,828 ) (18,422 ) sales and other revenues $ 4,023,217 $ 3,046,313 $ 2,116,245 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil and enter into buy/sell exchanges in excess of the needs to supply our refineries. certain direct sales of this excess crude oil are made to purchasers or users of crude oil. under new accounting guidance, these sales and related purchases starting april 1, 2006 are being measured at fair value and accounted for as revenues with the related acquisition costs included as cost of products sold. prior to april 1, 2006, sales and cost of sales attributable to such excess crude oil direct sales were netted and presented in cost of products sold. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the revenues associated with nk asphalt partners subsequent to its consolidation in february 2005, revenue derived from sulfur credit sales and revenues during 2004 from terminal and pipeline assets that are now owned by hep. (4) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2006 2005 2004 net operating margin per barrel $ 10.95 $ 8.51 $ 5.83 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 4.83 4.11 3.37 refinery gross margin per barrel 15.78 12.62 9.20 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 64.43 56.50 42.20 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 80.21 $ 69.12 $ 51.40 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 105,090 106,500 102,400 times number of days in period 365 365 366 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 3,076,726 $ 2,686,671 $ 1,926,365 -55- table of contentsall forward-looking statements included in this form 10-k and all subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. the forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made and, other than as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. -3- table of contents definitions within this report, the following terms have these specific meanings: alkylation means the reaction of propylene or butylene (olefins) with isobutane to form an iso-paraffinic gasoline (inverse of cracking). bpd means the number of barrels per calendar day of crude oil or petroleum products. bpsd means the number of barrels per stream day (barrels of capacity in a 24 hour period) of crude oil or petroleum products. catalytic reforming means a refinery process which uses a precious metal (such as platinum) based catalyst to convert low octane naphtha to high octane gasoline blendstock and hydrogen. the hydrogen produced from the reforming process is used to desulfurize other refinery oils and is the primary source of hydrogen for the refinery. cracking means the process of breaking down larger, heavier and more complex hydrocarbon molecules into simpler and lighter molecules. crude distillation means the process of distilling vapor from liquid crudes, usually by heating, and condensing slightly above atmospheric pressure the vapor back to liquid in order to purify, fractionate or form the desired products. ethanol means a high octane gasoline blend stock that is used to make various grades of gasoline. fcc , or fluid catalytic cracking, means a refinery process that breaks down large complex hydrocarbon molecules into smaller more useful ones using a circulating bed of catalyst at relatively high temperatures. hydrocracker means a refinery unit that breaks down large complex hydrocarbon molecules into smaller more useful ones using a fixed bed of catalyst at high pressure and temperature with hydrogen. hydrodesulfurization means to remove sulfur and nitrogen compounds from oil or gas in the presence of hydrogen and a catalyst at relatively high temperatures. hydrogen plant means a refinery unit that converts natural gas and steam to high purity hydrogen, which is then used in the hydrodesulfurization, hydrocracking and isomerization processes. hf alkylation , or hydrofluoric alkylation, means a refinery process which combines isobutane and c3/c4 olefins using hf acid as a catalyst to make high octane gasoline blend stock. isomerization means a refinery process for rearranging the structure of c5/c6 molecules without changing their size or chemical composition and is used to improve the octane of c5/c6 gasoline blendstocks. lpg means liquid petroleum gases. lsg, or low sulfur gasoline, means gasoline that contains less than 30 ppm of total sulfur. mmbtu or one million british thermal units, means for each unit, the amount of heat required to raise one pound of water one degree fahrenheit at one atmosphere pressure. mmscfd means one million standard cubic feet per day. mtbe means methyl tertiary butyl ether, a high octane gasoline blend stock that is used to make various grades of gasoline. -4- table of contents natural gasoline means a low octane gasoline blend stock that is purchased and used to blend with other high octane stocks produced to make various grades of gasoline. ppm means parts-per-million. refinery gross margin means the difference between average net sales price and average costs of products per barrel of produced refined products. this does not include the associated depreciation, depletion and amortization costs. reforming means the process of converting gasoline type molecules into aromatic, higher octane gasoline blend stocks while producing hydrogen in the process. rose , or solvent deasphalter / residuum oil supercritical extraction, means a refinery unit that uses a light hydrocarbon like propane or butane to extract non asphaltene heavy oils from asphalt or atmospheric reduced crude. these deasphalted oils are then further converted to gasoline and diesel in the fcc process. the remaining asphaltenes are either sold, blended to fuel oil or blended with other asphalt as a hardener. sour crude oil means crude oil containing quantities of sulfur greater than 0.4 percent by weight, while sweet crude oil means crude oil containing quantities of sulfur equal to or less than 0.4 percent by weight. ulsd, or ultra low sulfur diesel, means diesel fuel that contains less than 15 ppm of total sulfur. vacuum distillation means the process of distilling vapor from liquid crudes, usually by heating, and condensing below atmospheric pressure the vapor back to liquid in order to purify, fractionate or form the desired products. -5- table of contents index to defined terms and names the following other terms and names that appear in this form 10-k are defined on the following pages: page reference caa 19 cercla 20 connacher 8 consent agreement 19 cwa 20 desc 13 ebitda 32 epa 13 exchange act 86 fasb 7 ferc 26 fin 46 7 hep 7 hep ipa 17 hep pta 17 hep senior notes 38 leased pipeline 7 lifo 34 mdeq 27 montana refinery 8 mrc 27 navajo refinery 7 npdes 20 pemex 9 plains 11 rio grande 7 sec 7 sdwa 20 sfas 44 sfpp 11 vie 44 vrdn 37 woods cross refinery 7 terms used in the financial statements and footnotes are as defined therein. -6- table of contents items 1 and 2. business and properties company overview references herein to holly corporation include holly corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries. in accordance with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) plain english guidelines, this annual report on form 10-k has been written in the first person. in this document, the words we , our , ours and us refer only to holly corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries or to holly corporation or an individual subsidiary and not to any other person. we are principally an independent petroleum refiner which produces high value light products such as gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel. we were incorporated in delaware in 1947 and maintain our principal corporate offices at 100 crescent court, suite 1600, dallas, texas 75201-6915. our telephone number is 214-871-3555 and our internet website address is www.hollycorp.com . the information contained on our website does not constitute part of this annual report on form 10-k. a print copy of this annual report on form 10-k will be provided without charge upon written request to the vice president, investor relations at the above address. a direct link to our filings at the sec web site is available on our website on the investors page. also available on our website are copies of our corporate governance guidelines, audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, nominating / corporate governance committee charter and code of business conduct and ethics, all of which will be provided without charge upon written request to the vice president, investor relations at the above address. our code of business conduct and ethics applies to all of our officers, employees and directors, including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer. on april 26, 2004, our stock began trading on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol hoc . our stock formerly traded on the american stock exchange. in july 2004, we completed the initial public offering of limited partnership interests in holly energy partners, l.p. ( hep ), a delaware limited partnership that also trades on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol hep . hep was formed to acquire, own and operate substantially all of the refined product pipeline and terminalling assets that support our refining and marketing operations in west texas, new mexico, utah and arizona and a 70% interest in rio grande pipeline company ( rio grande ). we initially consolidated the results of hep and showed the interest we did not own as a minority interest in ownership and earnings. on july 8, 2005, we closed on a transaction for hep to acquire our two 65-mile parallel intermediate feedstock pipelines which connect our lovington and artesia, new mexico facilities, which reduced our ownership interest in hep to 45.0%. under the provision of the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) interpretation no. 46 (revised), consolidation of variable interest entities, ( fin 46 ) we deconsolidated hep effective july 1, 2005. the deconsolidation has been presented from july 1, 2005 forward, and our share of the earnings of hep from july 1, 2005 is reported using the equity method of accounting. as of december 31, 2007, we: owned and operated two refineries consisting of a petroleum refinery in artesia, new mexico that is operated in conjunction with crude oil distillation and vacuum distillation and other facilities situated 65 miles away in lovington, new mexico (collectively known as the navajo refinery ), and a refinery in woods cross, utah ( woods cross refinery ); owned approximately 900 miles of crude oil pipelines located principally in west texas and new mexico; owned and operated holly asphalt company (formerly, nk asphalt partners) which manufactures and markets asphalt products from various terminals in arizona and new mexico; and owned a 45% interest in hep (which includes our 2% general partnership interest), which has logistics assets including approximately 1,700 miles of petroleum product pipelines located in texas, new mexico and oklahoma (including 340 miles of leased pipeline); ten refined product terminals; two refinery truck rack facilities; a refined products tank farm facility; and a 70% interest in rio grande. on february 26, 2008, we announced an agreement for the sale of certain pipeline and tankage assets to hep for $180.0 million. the agreement provides for consideration to us of $171.0 million in cash and hep common units valued at approximately $9.0 million. the assets include 136 miles of crude oil trunk lines that deliver crude to our navajo refinery in southeast new mexico, approximately 725 miles of gathering and connection pipelines located in west texas and new mexico, on-site crude tankage having a combined 600,000 -7- table of contents barrels of storage capacity located within the navajo and woods cross refinery complexes, a jet fuel products pipeline and terminal (terminal leased through september 2011) between artesia and roswell, new mexico, and 10 miles of crude oil and product pipelines that support our woods cross refinery. in connection with the closing of this transaction, we will enter into a 15-year pipelines and tankage agreement with hep that will contain a minimum annual revenue commitment to hep from us. this transaction is expected to close on february 29, 2008. we expect the consummation of this proposed transaction to result in our owning a beneficial variable interest in hep in excess of 50%. in accordance with provisions under fin 46, we expect to reconsolidate hep effective march 1, 2008. navajo refining company, l.l.c., one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, owns the navajo refinery. the navajo refinery has a crude capacity of 85,000 bpsd of sour and sweet crude oils, can process up to approximately 90% sour crude oils, and serves markets in the southwestern united states and northern mexico. our woods cross refinery, located just north of salt lake city, utah has a crude capacity of 26,000 bpsd and is operated by holly refining marketing company woods cross, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. this facility is a high conversion refinery that processes regional sweet and canadian sour crude oils. in conjunction with the refining operations, we own approximately 900 miles of crude oil pipelines that serve primarily as the supply network for our new mexico refinery operations that we have agreed to sell to hep as discussed above. on march 31, 2006 we sold our petroleum refinery in great falls, montana (the montana refinery ) to a subsidiary of connacher oil and gas limited ( connacher ). accordingly, the results of operations of the montana refinery and a net gain of $14.0 million on the sale are shown in discontinued operations. our operations are currently organized into one business segment, refining. the refining business segment includes the navajo refinery, woods cross refinery and holly asphalt company. prior to our deconsolidation of hep on july 1, 2005 our operations were organized into two business segments, which were refining and hep. our operations that are not included in either the refining or hep (prior to its deconsolidation) business segments include the operations of holly corporation, the parent company, a small-scale oil and gas exploration and production program, and prior to the deconsolidation of hep, the elimination of the revenue and costs associated with hep pipeline transportation services for us as well as the recognition of the minority interests income of hep. refinery operations our refinery operations include the navajo refinery and the woods cross refinery. the following table sets forth information, including performance measures about our refinery operations that are not calculations based upon u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ). the cost of products and refinery gross margin do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. information regarding our individual refineries is provided later under this section of refinery operations. years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 consolidated (7) crude charge (bpd) (1) 103,490 96,570 95,950 refinery production (bpd) (2) 113,270 105,730 106,040 sales of produced refined products (bpd) 115,050 105,090 106,500 sales of refined products (bpd) (3) 126,800 119,870 117,110 refinery utilization (4) 94.1 % 92.4 % 95.0 % average per produced barrel (5) net sales $ 89.77 $ 80.21 $ 69.12 cost of products 73.03 64.43 56.50 refinery gross margin 16.74 15.78 12.62 refinery operating expenses (6) 4.43 4.83 4.11 net operating margin $ 12.31 $ 10.95 $ 8.51 -8- table of contents years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 feedstocks: sour crude oil 62 % 61 % 67 % sweet crude oil 26 % 28 % 21 % other feedstocks and blends 12 % 11 % 12 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) crude charge represents the barrels per day of crude oil processed at the crude units at our refineries. (2) refinery production represents the barrels per day of refined products yielded from processing crude and other refinery feedstocks through the crude units and other conversion units at our refineries. (3) includes refined products purchased for resale. (4) represents crude charge divided by total crude capacity (bpsd). our consolidated crude capacity was increased from 101,000 bpsd to 109,000 bpsd during 2006 and by an additional 2,000 bpsd in mid-year 2007, increasing our consolidated crude capacity to 111,000 bpsd. (5) represents average per barrel amount for produced refined products sold, which is a non-gaap measure. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. (6) represents operating expenses of our refineries, exclusive of depreciation, depletion and amortization. (7) the montana refinery was sold on march 31, 2006. amounts reported are for the navajo and woods cross refineries. the petroleum refining business is highly competitive. among our competitors are some of the world largest integrated petroleum companies, which have their own crude oil supplies and distribution and marketing systems. we also compete with other independent refiners. competition in a particular geographic area is affected primarily by the amount of refined products produced by refineries located in that area and by the availability of refined products and the cost of transportation to that area from refineries located outside the area. projects have been explored from time to time by refiners and other entities which projects, if completed, could result in further increases in the supply of products to some or all of our markets. in recent years, there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between competitors in our geographic markets. these transactions could increase future competitive pressures on us. set forth below is information regarding our principal products. years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 consolidated sales of produced refined products: gasolines 60 % 61 % 59 % diesel fuels 29 % 28 % 27 % jet fuels 2 % 3 % 4 % fuel oil 4 % 3 % 2 % asphalt 2 % 2 % 4 % lpg and other 3 % 3 % 4 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % we have several significant customers, none of which accounts for more than 10% of our business. our principal customers for gasoline include other refiners, convenience store chains, independent marketers, an affiliate of petr leos mexicanos ( pemex ), the government-owned energy company of mexico, and retailers. diesel fuel is sold to other refiners, truck stop chains, wholesalers and railroads. jet fuel is sold for military and domestic airline use. asphalt is sold to governmental entities or contractors. lpg are sold to lpg wholesalers and lpg retailers and carbon black oil is sold for further processing or blended into fuel oil. loss of, or reduction in amounts purchased by, our major customers that purchase for their retail operations could have an adverse effect on us to the extent that, because of market limitations or transportation constraints, we are not able to correspondingly increase sales to other purchasers. in order to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually enter into contracts for new crude oil supplies. the primary factors affecting our ability to contract for new crude oil supplies are our ability to connect new supplies of crude oil to our gathering systems or to our other crude oil receiving lines, our success in -9- table of contents contracting for and receiving existing crude oil supplies that are currently being purchased by other refineries and the level of drilling activity near our gathering systems or our other crude oil receiving lines. navajo refinery facilities the navajo refinery has a crude oil capacity of 85,000 bpsd and has the ability to process sour crude oils into high value light products (such as gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel). the navajo refinery converts approximately 92% of its raw materials throughput into high value light products. for 2007, gasoline, diesel fuel and jet fuel (excluding volumes purchased for resale) represented 59%, 30% and 3%, respectively, of the navajo refinery sales volumes. the following table sets forth information about the navajo refinery operations, including non-gaap performance measures. the cost of products and refinery gross margin do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 navajo refinery crude charge (bpd) (1) 79,460 72,930 71,850 refinery production (bpd) (2) 87,930 80,540 80,190 sales of produced refined products (bpd) 88,920 79,940 80,110 sales of refined products (bpd) (3) 100,460 93,660 89,400 refinery utilization (4) 94.6 % 92.9 % 95.8 % average per produced barrel (5) net sales $ 89.68 $ 79.62 $ 69.11 cost of products 74.10 64.25 55.50 refinery gross margin 15.58 15.37 13.61 refinery operating expenses (6) 4.30 4.74 3.94 net operating margin $ 11.28 $ 10.63 $ 9.67 feedstocks: sour crude oil 82 % 80 % 85 % sweet crude oil 9 % 8 % 2 % other feedstocks and blends 9 % 12 % 13 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) crude charge represents the barrels per day of crude oil processed at the crude units at our refinery. (2) refinery production represents the barrels per day of refined products yielded from processing crude and other refinery feedstocks through the crude units and other conversion units at the refinery. (3) includes refined products purchased for resale. (4) represents crude charge divided by total crude capacity (bpsd). the crude capacity was increased from 75,000 bpsd to 83,000 bpsd during 2006 and by an additional 2,000 bpsd in mid-year 2007, increasing crude capacity to 85,000 bpsd. (5) represents average per barrel amount for produced refined products sold, which is a non-gaap measure. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. (6) represents operating expenses of the refinery, exclusive of depreciation, depletion and amortization. the navajo refinery artesia, new mexico facility is located on a 561 acre site and is a fully integrated refinery with crude distillation, vacuum distillation, fcc, rose (solvent deasphalter), hf alkylation, catalytic reforming, hydrodesulfurization, isomerization, sulfur recovery and product blending units. other supporting infrastructure includes approximately 2.0 million barrels of feedstock and product tankage at the site, maintenance shops, warehouses and office buildings. the operating units at the artesia facility include newly constructed units, older units that have been relocated from other facilities and upgraded and re-erected in artesia, and units that have been operating as part of the artesia facility (with periodic major maintenance) for many years, in some very limited cases since before 1970. the artesia facility is operated in conjunction with an integrated refining facility located in -10- table of contents lovington, new mexico, approximately 65 miles east of artesia. the principal equipment at the lovington facility consists of a crude distillation and associated vacuum distillation units which were originally constructed after 1970. the facility also has an additional 1.1 million barrels of feedstock and product tankage. the lovington facility processes crude oil into intermediate products, which are transported to artesia by means of two intermediate pipelines owned by hep and which are then upgraded into finished products at the artesia facility. the combined crude oil capacity of the two facilities is 85,000 bpsd and typically processes or blends an additional 10,000 bpsd of natural gasoline, butane, gas oil and naphtha. we have approximately 900 miles of crude gathering pipelines transporting crude oil to the artesia and lovington facilities from various points in southeastern new mexico and west texas, 67 crude oil trucks and 67 trailers in addition to over 600 , 000 barrels of related tankage. we distribute refined products from the navajo refinery to markets in arizona, new mexico and west texas primarily through two of hep owned pipelines that extend from artesia, new mexico to el paso, texas. in addition, we use pipelines owned and leased by hep to transport petroleum products to markets in central and northwest new mexico. we have refined product storage through our pipelines and terminals agreement with hep at terminals in el paso, texas; tucson, arizona; and artesia, moriarty and bloomfield, new mexico. we manufacture and market commodity and modified asphalt products in arizona, new mexico, texas and northern mexico under holly asphalt company ( holly asphalt ). we have three manufacturing facilities located in glendale, arizona, albuquerque, new mexico and artesia, new mexico. our albuquerque and artesia facilities manufacture modified hot asphalt products and commodity emulsions from base asphalt materials provided by our navajo refinery and third party suppliers. our glendale facility manufactures modified hot asphalt products from base asphalt materials provided by our navajo and woods cross refineries and third party suppliers. our products are shipped via third party trucking companies to commercial customers that provide asphalt based materials for commercial and government projects. markets and competition the navajo refinery primarily serves the growing southwestern united states market, including el paso, texas; albuquerque, moriarty and bloomfield, new mexico; phoenix and tucson, arizona; and the northern mexico market. our products are shipped through hep pipelines from artesia, new mexico to el paso, texas and from el paso to albuquerque and to mexico via products pipeline systems owned by plains all american pipeline, l.p. ( plains ) and from el paso to tucson and phoenix via a products pipeline system owned by kinder morgan sfpp, l.p. ( sfpp ). in addition, the navajo refinery transports petroleum products to markets in northwest new mexico and to moriarty, new mexico, near albuquerque, via hep pipelines running from artesia to san juan county, new mexico. el paso market the el paso market for refined products is currently supplied by a number of area refiners, gulf coast refiners and pipelines. area refiners include navajo, conocophillips, valero, alon, and western refining. pipelines serving this market include longhorn, magellan, nustar and hep pipelines. refined products from the gulf coast are transported via the longhorn and magellan pipelines. we currently supply approximately 11,000 bpd to the el paso market, which accounts for approximately 18% of the refined products consumed in that market. arizona market the arizona market for refined products is currently supplied by a number of refiners via pipelines and trucks. refiners include companies located in west texas, eastern new mexico, northern new mexico, the gulf coast and west coast. we currently supply approximately 47,000 bpd of refined products into the arizona market, comprised primarily of phoenix and tucson, which accounts for approximately 16% of the refined products consumed in that market. we use kinder morgan sfpp pipeline to serve the arizona market. in december 2007, kinder morgan completed an expansion of its el paso, texas to tucson and phoenix, arizona pipeline, increasing its capacity to approximately 200,000 bpd. although we expect that we and other refiners will ship additional volumes of refined product via this pipeline, we cannot presently predict the ultimate effects on us. -11- table of contents new mexico markets the artesia, albuquerque, moriarty and bloomfield markets are supplied by a number of refiners via pipelines and trucks. refiners include navajo, valero, western, alon and conocophillips. we currently supply approximately 21,000 bpd of refined products to the new mexico market, which accounts for approximately 20% of the refined products consumed in that market. the common carrier pipeline we use to serve the albuquerque market out of el paso currently operates at near capacity. in addition, hep leases from mid-america pipeline company, l.l.c., a pipeline between white lakes, new mexico and the albuquerque vicinity and bloomfield, new mexico (the leased pipeline ). the lease agreement currently runs through 2017, and hep has options to renew for two ten-year periods. hep owns and operates a 12-inch pipeline from the navajo refinery to the leased pipeline as well as terminalling facilities in bloomfield, new mexico, which is located in the northwest corner of new mexico, and in moriarty, which is 40 miles east of albuquerque. these facilities permit us to provide a total of up to 45,000 bpd of light products to the growing albuquerque and santa fe, new mexico areas. if needed, additional pump stations could further increase the leased pipeline capabilities. the longhorn pipeline is a 72,000 bpd common carrier pipeline that delivers refined products utilizing a direct route from the texas gulf coast to el paso and, through interconnections with third-party common carrier pipelines, into the arizona market. deliveries of refined products shipped on the longhorn pipeline increased significantly during 2007, and we believe the longhorn pipeline is currently operating at near full capacity. longhorn partners pipeline, l.p., owner of the longhorn pipeline, has also announced a planned expansion of its pipeline throughput capacity from 72,000 bpd to 125,000 bpd. an additional factor that could affect some of our markets is the presence of pipeline capacity from el paso and the west coast into our arizona markets. additional increases in shipments of refined products from el paso and the west coast into our arizona markets could result in additional downward pressure on refined product prices in these markets. crude oil and feedstock supplies the navajo refinery is situated near the permian basin in an area which historically has had abundant supplies of crude oil available both for regional users, such as us, and for export to other areas. we purchase crude oil from producers in nearby southeastern new mexico and west texas and from major oil companies. crude oil is gathered both through our pipelines and tank trucks and through third party crude oil pipeline systems. crude oil acquired in locations distant from the refinery is exchanged for crude oil that is transportable to the refinery. we also purchase isobutane, natural gasoline, and other feedstocks to supply the navajo refinery. in 2007, approximately 4,500 bpd of isobutane and 4,100 bpd of natural gasoline used in the navajo refinery operations were purchased from a newly operational fractionation facility in hobbs, new mexico, that is owned by enterprise products, l.p. as well as volumes purchased from the mid-continent area and delivered to our region on a common carrier pipeline owned by enterprise products, l.p. ultimately all volumes of these products are shipped to the artesia refining facilities on hep two parallel 65-mile pipelines running from lovington to artesia. from time to time, we also purchase gas oil, naphtha and light cycle oil from other oil companies for use as feedstock. principal products and customers set forth below is information regarding the principal products produced at the navajo refinery: years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 navajo refinery sales of produced refined products: gasolines 59 % 60 % 59 % diesel fuels 30 % 28 % 27 % jet fuels 3 % 4 % 4 % fuel oil 3 % 2 % % asphalt 2 % 3 % 6 % lpg and other 3 % 3 % 4 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % -12- table of contents light products are shipped by product pipelines or are made available at various points by exchanges with others. light products are also made available to customers through truck loading facilities at the refinery and at terminals. our principal customers for gasoline include other refiners, convenience store chains, independent marketers, an affiliate of pemex and retailers. our gasoline produced at the navajo refinery is marketed in the southwestern united states, including the metropolitan areas of el paso, phoenix, albuquerque, bloomfield, and tucson, and in portions of northern mexico. the composition of gasoline differs, because of local regulatory requirements, depending on the area in which gasoline is to be sold. diesel fuel is sold to other refiners, truck stop chains, wholesalers, and railroads. jet fuel is sold for military use. all asphalt produced at the navajo refinery and third-party purchased asphalt is marketed through holly asphalt to governmental entities or contractors. lpg are sold to lpg wholesalers and lpg retailers and carbon black oil is sold for further processing. military jet fuel is sold to the defense energy support center, a part of the united states department of defense (the desc ), under a series of one-year contracts that can vary significantly from year to year. we sold approximately 800 bpd of jet fuel to the desc in 2007. we have had a military jet fuel supply contract with the united states government for each of the last 38 years. our size in terms of employees and refining capacity allows us to bid for military jet fuel sales contracts under a small business set-aside program. in september 2007, the desc awarded us contracts for sales of military jet fuel for the period from october 1, 2007 through september 30, 2008. our total contract award, which is subject to adjustment based on actual needs of the desc for military jet fuel, is approximately 22 million gallons as compared to the total award for the 2006-2007 contract year of approximately 52 million gallons. the loss of or further reduction of quantities of jet fuel provided under our military jet fuel contract with the united states government could have an adverse effect on our results of operations if alternate commercial jet fuel or additional diesel fuel sales could not be secured. capital improvement projects we have invested significant amounts in capital expenditures in recent years to expand and enhance the navajo refinery and expand our supply and distribution network. our board of directors approved a capital budget for 2008 of $21.0 million for refining improvement projects for the navajo refinery, not including the capital projects approved in prior years or our expansion and feedstock flexibility projects described below. as announced in december 2006 we will be installing a new 15,000 bpd hydrocracker and a new 28 mmscfd hydrogen plant at a budgeted cost of approximately $125.0 million. the addition of these units is expected to increase liquid volume recovery, increase the refinery capacity to process outside feedstocks, and increase yields of high valued products, as well as enabling the refinery to meet new low sulfur gasoline specifications required by the environmental protection agency ( epa ). the hydrocracker and hydrogen plant projects will provide improved heavy crude oil processing flexibility. as announced in february 2007, we are revamping an existing crude unit which will increase the crude capacity at the navajo refinery to approximately 100,000 bpd. additionally, our board of directors has approved a revamp of its second crude unit and a new solvent de-asphalter unit. the approved components, combined with the above described components approved in 2006, bring the total budgeted amount for this expansion and heavy crude oil processing project to $245.0 million. it is currently anticipated that the expansion portion of the overall project consisting of the initial crude unit revamp, the new hydrocracker and the new hydrogen plant will be completed and operational by the first quarter of 2009. the completion of the heavy crude oil processing portion of the overall project, including the second crude unit revamp and the installation of the new solvent de-asphalter, will be targeted to coincide with the development of future pipeline access to the navajo refinery for heavy canadian crude oil and other foreign heavy crude oils transported from the cushing, oklahoma area. we plan to explore with hep the most economical manner to obtain this needed pipeline access. also at the navajo refinery, a project to install an additional 100 ton per day sulfur recovery unit included in the 2006 capital budget is currently underway at an estimated cost of $26.0 million, of which we have spent approximately $10.0 million to date. this new sulfur recovery unit will permit our navajo refinery to process 100% sour crude and is planned for start-up in the third quarter of 2008. it is anticipated that the projects that will -13- table of contents be completed by the fourth quarter of 2008 will also enable the navajo refinery, without significant additional investment, to comply with lsg specifications required by the end of 2010. woods cross refinery facilities the woods cross refinery has a crude oil capacity of 26,000 bpsd and is operated by holly refining marketing company woods cross, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries. the woods cross refinery is located in woods cross, utah and processes regional sweet and black wax crude as well as canadian sour crude oils into high value light products. for 2007, gasoline, diesel and jet fuel (excluding volumes purchased for resale) represented 63%, 27% and 2%, respectively, of the woods cross refinery sales volumes. the following table sets forth information about the woods cross refinery operations, including non-gaap performance measures about our refinery operations. the cost of products and refinery gross margin do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 woods cross refinery crude charge (bpd) (1) 24,030 23,640 24,100 refinery production (bpd) (2) 25,340 25,190 25,850 sales of produced refined products (bpd) 26,130 25,150 26,390 sales of refined products (bpd) (3) 26,340 26,210 27,710 refinery utilization (4) 92.4 % 90.9 % 92.7 % average per produced barrel (5) net sales $ 90.09 $ 82.09 $ 69.13 cost of products 69.40 64.99 59.51 refinery gross margin 20.69 17.10 9.62 refinery operating expenses (6) 4.86 5.13 4.61 net operating margin $ 15.83 $ 11.97 $ 5.01 feedstocks: sour crude oil 3 % 2 % 8 % sweet crude oil 89 % 89 % 82 % other feedstocks and blends 8 % 9 % 10 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % (1) crude charge represents the barrels per day of crude oil processed at the crude units at our refinery. (2) refinery production represents the barrels per day of refined products yielded from processing crude and other feedstocks through the crude units and other conversion units at the refinery. (3) includes refined products purchased for resale. (4) represents crude charge divided by total crude capacity (bpsd). (5) represents average per barrel amount for produced refined products sold, which is a non-gaap measure. reconciliations to amounts reported under gaap are provided under reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles following item 7a of part ii of this form 10-k. (6) represents operating expenses of the refinery, exclusive of depreciation, depletion and amortization. the woods cross refinery facility is located on a 200 acre site and is a fully integrated refinery with crude distillation, solvent deasphalter, fcc, hf alkylation, catalytic reforming, hydrodesulfurization, isomerization, sulfur recovery, and product blending units. other supporting infrastructure includes approximately 1.5 million barrels of feedstock and product tankage, maintenance shops, warehouses and office buildings. the operating units at the woods cross facility include newly constructed units, older units that have been relocated from other facilities, upgraded and re-erected in woods cross, and units that have been operating as part of the woods cross facility (with periodic major maintenance) for many years, in some very limited cases since before 1950. the crude oil -14- table of contents capacity of the woods cross facility is 26,000 bpsd and the facility typically processes or blends an additional 2,000 bpsd of natural gasoline, butane, and gas oil. we operate 14 miles of crude, refined products and hydrogen pipelines that allow us to connect our woods cross refinery to common carrier pipeline systems and to a hydrogen plant located at chevron salt lake city refinery. markets and competition the woods cross refinery is one of five refineries located in utah. we estimate that the four refineries that compete with our woods cross refinery have a combined capacity to process approximately 146,000 bpd of crude oil. the five utah refineries collectively supply an estimated 70% of the gasoline and distillate products consumed in the states of utah and idaho, with the remainder imported from refineries in wyoming and montana via the pioneer pipeline owned jointly by sinclair and conocophillips (the pioneer pipeline ). the woods cross refinery primary markets include utah, idaho, nevada and wyoming. approximately 60% of the gasoline and diesel fuel produced by our woods cross refinery is sold through a network of phillip 66 branded marketers under a long-term supply agreement. utah market the utah market for refined products is currently supplied primarily by a number of local refiners and the pioneer pipeline. local area refiners include woods cross, chevron, tesoro, big west and silver eagle. other refiners that ship via the pioneer pipeline include sinclair, exxonmobil and conocophillips. we currently supply approximately 18,000 bpd of refined products into the utah market, which represents approximately 15% of the refined products consumed in that market, to branded and unbranded customers. idaho, wyoming, eastern washington and nevada markets we currently supply approximately 7,500 bpd of refined products into the idaho, wyoming, eastern washington and nevada markets, which represents approximately 2% of the refined products consumed in those markets. woods cross ships refined products over chevron common carrier pipeline system to numerous terminals, including hep terminals at boise and burley, idaho and spokane, washington and to terminals at pocatello and boise, idaho and pasco, washington which are owned by northwest terminalling pipeline company. we sell to branded and unbranded customers in these markets. we also truck refined products to las vegas, nevada. the idaho market for refined products is primarily supplied via chevron common carrier pipeline system from refiners located in the salt lake city area and products supplied from the pioneer pipeline system. refiners that could potentially supply the chevron and pioneer pipeline systems include woods cross, chevron, tesoro, big west, silver eagle, sinclair, conocophillips and exxonmobil. we market refined products in the wyoming market on a limited basis. refiners that supply wyoming include sinclair, conocophillips, exxonmobil and frontier. the eastern washington market is supplied by two common carrier pipelines, chevron and yellowstone. product is also shipped into the area via rail from various points in the united states and canada. refined products shipped on chevron pipeline system are supplied by refiners and other pipelines located in the salt lake city area and from refiners located in the pacific northwest. pacific northwest refiners include bp, tesoro, shell, conocophillips and us oil. products supplied from the sources located in the pacific northwest area are generally shipped over the columbia river via barge at pasco, washington. the majority of the las vegas, nevada market for refined products is supplied by various west coast refiners and suppliers via kinder morgan calnev common carrier pipeline system. -15- table of contents principal products and customers set forth below is information regarding the principal products produced at the woods cross refinery: years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 woods cross refinery sales of produced refined products: gasolines 63 % 63 % 60 % diesel fuels 27 % 28 % 29 % jet fuels 2 % 2 % 2 % fuel oil 5 % 5 % 7 % asphalt 1 % % % lpg and other 2 % 2 % 2 % total 100 % 100 % 100 % light products are shipped by product pipelines or are made available at various points by exchanges with others. light products are also made available to customers through truck loading facilities at the refinery and at terminals. our principal customers for gasoline include other refiners, convenience store chains, independent marketers and retailers. the composition of gasoline differs, due to local regulatory requirements, depending on the area in which gasoline is to be sold. diesel fuel is sold to other refiners, truck stop chains, and wholesalers. jet fuel is sold for military and domestic airline use. all asphalt produced is blended to fuel oil and sold locally, railed to the gulf coast, railed directly to our customers or marketed through holly asphalt company to governmental entities or contractors. lpg are sold to lpg wholesalers and lpg retailers. military jet fuel is sold to the desc under a series of one-year contracts that can vary significantly from year to year. we sold approximately 100 bpd of jet fuel to the desc in 2007. our size in terms of employees and refining capacity allows us to bid for military jet fuel sales contracts under a small business set-aside program. we did not obtain a contract with the desc for the october 1, 2007 through september 30, 2008 period. our total contract award for the 2006-2007 contract year was approximately 8 million gallons. crude oil and feedstock supplies the woods cross refinery currently obtains its supply of crude oil primarily from suppliers in canada, wyoming, utah and colorado via common carrier pipelines, which originate in canada, wyoming and colorado. supplies of black wax crude oil are shipped via truck. capital improvement projects our approved capital budget for 2008 capital projects at the woods cross refinery is $7.7 million not including the major projects described below or other capital projects approved in prior years. as announced in december 2006, we will be adding a new 15,000 bpd hydrocracker along with sulfur recovery and desalting equipment at our woods cross refinery. the budgeted cost of these additions is approximately $105.0 million. these additions will expand the woods cross refinery crude processing capabilities from 26,000 bpd to 31,000 bpd while enabling the refinery to process up to 10,000 bpd of high-value low-priced black wax crude oil and up to 5,000 bpd of low-priced heavy canadian crude oils. this expansion project as approved involves a higher capital investment than had originally been estimated, principally because of the substitution of a complex hydrocracker in place of certain desulfurization and expanded bottoms-processing modifications that had been included in preliminary planning. the substitution of the complex hydrocracker is expected to provide increased capabilities to process significantly more black wax crude oils, which have recently been priced at substantial discounts to west texas intermediate crude oil while yielding substantially higher value products than the discounted heavy canadian crudes that were a more significant part of the original plan. these additions would also increase the refinery capacity to process low-cost feedstocks and provide the necessary infrastructure for future expansions of crude oil refining capacity at the woods cross refinery. the approved projects for the woods cross refinery are expected to be completed during the fourth quarter of 2008. to fully take advantage of the economics on the woods cross expansion project, additional crude pipeline capacity will be required to move canadian crude to the woods cross refinery. in november 2007, hep entered into an -16- table of contents agreement with plains all american pipeline, l.p. ( plains ) to acquire a 25% joint venture interest in a new 95-mile intrastate pipeline system now under construction by plains, for the shipment of up to 120,000 bpd of crude oil into the salt lake city area (the slc pipeline ). the slc pipeline will allow various refiners in the salt lake city area, including our woods cross refinery, to ship crude oil into the salt lake city area from the utah terminus of the frontier pipeline as well as crude oil from wyoming and utah, which is currently flowing on plains rocky mountain pipeline. the project is currently expected to be fully operational by the second quarter of 2008. in december 2007, we entered into a definitive agreement with sinclair transportation company ( sinclair ) to jointly build a 12-inch refined products pipeline from salt lake city, utah to las vegas, nevada, together with terminal facilities in the cedar city, utah and north las vegas areas (the unev pipeline ). under the agreement, we own a 75% interest in the joint venture pipeline and sinclair will own the remaining 25% interest. the initial capacity of the pipeline will be 62,000 bpd, with the capacity for further expansion to 120,000 bpd. the total cost of the pipeline project including terminals is expected to be $300.0 million. holly share of this cost is $225.0 million. construction of this project is currently expected to be completed and operational in mid 2009. in connection with this project, we have entered into a 10-year commitment to ship an annual average of 15,000 barrels per day of refined products on the unev pipeline at an agreed tariff. our commitment for each year is subject to reduction by up to 5,000 barrels per day in specified circumstances relating to shipments by other shippers. on january 31, 2008, we entered into an option agreement with hep, granting them an option to purchase our equity interests in the unev pipeline, effective for a 180-day period commencing when the unev pipeline becomes operational, at a purchase price equal to holly investment in the joint venture pipeline, plus interest at 7% per annum. holly energy partners, l.p. in july 2004, we completed the initial public offering of limited partnership interests in hep, a delaware limited partnership that also trades on the new york stock exchange under the trading symbol hep . hep was formed to acquire, own and operate substantially all of the refined product pipeline and terminalling assets that support our refining and marketing operations in west texas, new mexico, utah, idaho and arizona and a 70% interest in rio grande. on february 28, 2005, hep closed on a contribution agreement with alon and several of its wholly-owned subsidiaries that provided for hep acquisition of four refined products pipelines, an associated tank farm and two refined products terminals located primarily in texas. on july 8, 2005, we closed on a transaction for hep to acquire our two 65-mile parallel intermediate feedstock pipelines which connect our lovington and artesia, new mexico facilities, a transaction which diluted our ownership interest in hep to 45.0%. we initially consolidated the results of hep and showed the interest we did not own as a minority interest in ownership and earnings. under the provisions of fin 46, we have deconsolidated hep effective july 1, 2005. from july 1, 2005 forward, our share of the earnings of hep is reported using the equity method of accounting. for additional information about the formation of hep and the subsequent alon and intermediate pipelines transactions, see note 3 in the notes to consolidated financial statements under item 8, financial statements and supplementary data. hep operates a system of petroleum pipelines and distribution terminals in texas, new mexico, utah, arizona, idaho, washington and oklahoma. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products through its pipelines, by leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, by charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep does not take ownership of products that it transports or terminals except for terminal overages prior to october 1, 2007; therefore, it is not directly exposed to changes in commodity prices. hep serves our refineries in new mexico and utah under a 15-year pipelines and terminals agreement ( hep pta ) expiring 2019 and the 15-year intermediate pipelines agreement expiring 2020 ( hep ipa ). the agreements provide that we transport or terminal volumes on certain of hep facilities that will result in minimum annual payments to hep, currently $39.6 million under the hep pta and $12.8 million under the hep ipa. in addition, we have agreed to indemnify hep, subject to certain limits, for any historical environmental noncompliance and remediation liabilities. the substantial majority of hep business is devoted to providing transportation and terminalling services to us. in october 2007, we entered into an agreement that amends the hep pta under which hep has agreed to expand their pipeline system between artesia, new mexico and el paso, texas ( south system ). the expansion of the south system will include replacing 85 miles of 8-inch pipe with 12-inch pipe, adding 150,000 barrels of refined product storage at their el paso terminal, improving existing pumps, adding a tie-in to the kinder morgan pipeline to tucson and phoenix, arizona, and making related modifications. currently, this project is expected to be -17- table of contents completed by january 2009. the agreement also provides for a tariff increase, expected to be effective may 1, 2008, on our shipments on hep refined product pipelines. as of december 31, 2007, hep assets include: pipelines: approximately 780 miles of refined product pipelines, including 340 miles of leased pipelines, that transport gasoline, diesel, and jet fuel principally from our navajo refinery in new mexico to our customers in the metropolitan and rural areas of texas, new mexico, arizona, colorado, utah and northern mexico; approximately 510 miles of refined product pipelines that transport refined products from alon big spring refinery in texas to its customers in texas and oklahoma; two parallel 65-mile pipelines that transport intermediate feedstocks and crude oil from our lovington, new mexico refinery facilities to our artesia, new mexico refining facilities; and a 70% interest in rio grande, a joint venture that owns a 249-mile refined product pipeline that transports liquid petroleum gases, or lpg s, from west texas to the texas/mexico border near el paso for further transport into northern mexico. refined product terminals: four refined product terminals (one of which is 50% owned), located in el paso, texas; moriarty and bloomfield, new mexico; and tucson, arizona, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 1.1 million barrels, that are integrated with hep refined product pipeline system that serves our navajo refinery; three refined product terminals (two of which are 50% owned), located in burley and boise, idaho and spokane, washington, with an aggregate capacity of approximately 500,000 barrels, that serve third-party common carrier pipelines; one refined product terminal near mountain home, idaho with a capacity of 120,000 barrels, that serves a nearby united states air force base; two refined product terminals, located in wichita falls and abilene, texas, and one tank farm in orla, texas with aggregate capacity of 480,000 barrels, that are integrated with hep refined product pipelines that serve alon big spring, texas refinery; and two refined product truck loading racks, one located within our navajo refinery that is permitted to load over 40,000 bpd of light refined products, and one located within our woods cross refinery near salt lake city, utah, that is permitted to load over 25,000 bpd of light refined products. on february 26, 2008, we announced an agreement for the sale of certain pipeline and tankage assets to hep for $180.0 million. the agreement provides for consideration to us of $171.0 million in cash and hep common units valued at approximately $9.0 million. the assets include 136 miles of crude oil trunk lines that deliver crude to our navajo refinery in southeast new mexico, approximately 725 miles of gathering and connection pipelines located in west texas and new mexico, on-site crude tankage having a combined 600,000 barrels of storage capacity located within the navajo and woods cross refinery complexes, a jet fuel products pipeline and terminal (terminal leased through september 2011) between artesia and roswell, new mexico, and 10 miles of crude oil and product pipelines that support our woods cross refinery. in connection with the closing of this transaction, we will enter into a 15-year pipelines and tankage agreement with hep that will contain a minimum annual revenue commitment to hep from us. this transaction is expected to close on february 29, 2008. we expect the consummation of this proposed transaction to result in our owning a beneficial variable interest in hep in excess of 50%. in accordance with provisions under fin 46, we expect to reconsolidate hep effective march 1, 2008. additional operations and other information corporate offices we lease our principal corporate offices in dallas, texas. the lease for our principal corporate offices expires june 30, 2011, requires lease payments of approximately $109,000 per month plus certain operating expenses and provides for one five-year renewal period. functions performed in the dallas office include overall corporate management, refinery and hep management, planning and strategy, corporate finance, crude acquisition, logistics, -18- table of contents contract administration, marketing, investor relations, governmental affairs, accounting, tax, treasury, information technology, legal and human resources support functions. exploration and production we conduct a small-scale oil and gas exploration and production program. we have not budgeted any significant amounts for these activities in 2008. employees and labor relations as of december 31, 2007, we had 909 employees, of which 282 are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire during 2009 and 2010. we consider our employee relations to be good. regulation refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of matter into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. over the years, there have been and continue to be ongoing communications, including notices of violations, and discussions about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. we believe that our current operations are in substantial compliance with existing environmental laws, regulations and permits. our operations and many of the products we manufacture are subject to certain specific requirements of the federal clean air act ( caa ) and related state and local regulations. the caa contains provisions that require capital expenditures for the installation of certain air pollution control devices at our refineries. subsequent rule making authorized by the caa or similar laws or new agency interpretations of existing rules, may necessitate additional expenditures in future years. in december 2001, we entered into an agreement for a consent decree ( consent agreement ) with the epa and the new mexico environment department of environmental quality with respect to a global settlement of issues concerning the application of air quality requirements to past and future operations of our navajo refinery. the consent agreement requires us to make investments at our navajo refinery for the installation of certain state of the art pollution control equipment expected to total approximately $14.0 million. with the investments made to date, our outstanding required investment is no longer significant. in discussions beginning in the last half of 2005, the epa and the state of utah have asserted that we have federal caa liabilities relating to our woods cross refinery because of actions taken or not taken by prior owners of the woods cross refinery, which we purchased from conocophillips in june 2003. we have agreed with the epa and the state of utah to settle the issues presented by means of an agreement for a consent decree. the proposed agreement, which has not yet been signed by the parties and lodged with the federal district court in utah, includes obligations for us to make specified additional capital investments currently estimated to total approximately $17 million over several years and to make changes in operating procedures at the refinery. the proposed agreement also requires expenditures by us totaling $250,000 for penalties and a supplemental environmental project of benefit of the community in which the woods cross refinery is located. the agreements for the purchase of the woods cross refinery provide that conocophillips will indemnify us, subject to specified limitations, for environmental claims arising from circumstances prior to our purchase of the refinery. we believe that, in the present circumstances, the amount due to us from conocophillips under the agreements for the purchase of the woods cross refinery would be approximately $1.4 million with respect to the anticipated settlement. under the caa, the epa has the authority to modify the formulation of the refined transportation fuel products we manufacture in order to limit the emissions associated with their final use. for example, in december 1999, the epa promulgated national regulations limiting the amount of sulfur allowable in gasoline. the new regulations required the phase-in of gasoline sulfur standards beginning in 2004, with special provisions for small refiners and for refiners serving those western states exhibiting lesser air quality problems. subsequently, the epa promulgated regulations further limiting the sulfur content of highway fuel to 15 ppm. the epa believes such limits are necessary to protect new automobile emission control systems that may be inhibited by sulfur in the fuel. -19- table of contents in june 2004, the epa issued new regulations limiting emissions from diesel fuel powered engines used in non-road activities such as mining, construction, agriculture, railroad and marine and simultaneously limiting the sulfur content of diesel fuel used in these engines to facilitate compliance with the new emission standards. although the highway and non-road diesel sulfur regulations provided for a timed phase-in of the low sulfur requirements with extended compliance dates for small refiners such as us, both of our refineries met the ultimate 15 ppm standard for both our non-road and highway diesel fuel by june 1, 2006, the earliest deadline for large refiners. this entailed substantial capital expenditures; however, these capital expenditures would have been required later. our early compliance with this initiative enabled us to obtain additional small refiner extensions on the low sulfur gasoline requirements. we are currently reviewing new epa regulations on gasoline that would impose further reductions in the benzene content of our produced gasoline and would mandate the blending of prescribed, substantial percentages of renewable fuels (e.g. ethanol) into our produced gasoline. both of these initiatives contain mitigating provisions for small refiners such as us. these new requirements, other requirements of the caa, and other presently existing or future environmental regulations may cause us to make substantial capital expenditures to enable our refineries to produce products that meet applicable requirements. our operations are also subject to the federal clean water act ( cwa ), the federal safe drinking water act ( sdwa ) and comparable state and local requirements. the cwa, the sdwa and analogous laws prohibit any discharge into surface waters, ground waters, injection wells and publicly-owned treatment works except in strict conformance with permits, such as pre-treatment permits and national pollutant discharge elimination system ( npdes ) permits, issued by federal, state and local governmental agencies. npdes permits and analogous water discharge permits are valid for a maximum of five years and must be renewed. we generate wastes that may be subject to the resource conservation and recovery act and comparable state and local requirements. the epa and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability act ( cercla ), also known as superfund, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. these persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed of or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substances. under cercla, such persons may be subject to joint and several liabilities for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by hazardous substances or other pollutants released into the environment. analogous state laws impose similar responsibilities and liabilities on responsible parties. in the course of our historical operations, as well as in our current normal operations, we have generated waste, some of which falls within the statutory definition of a hazardous substance and some of which may have been disposed of at sites that may require cleanup under superfund. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed of. we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries, including those discussed above. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our refineries and at pipeline transportation facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with -20- table of contents applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. we cannot predict what additional health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. insurance our operations are subject to normal hazards of operations, including fire, explosion and weather-related perils. we maintain various insurance coverages, including business interruption insurance, subject to certain deductibles. we are not fully insured against certain risks because such risks are not fully insurable, coverage is unavailable, or premium costs, in our judgment, do not justify such expenditures. item 1a. risk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, by competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve and by factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results therefore depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a -21- table of contents substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flows. in addition, we currently process volumes of lower cost crude oils, such as regional sour, heavy canadian and black wax. as part of our current capital initiatives, we plan on providing additional flexibility to both our navajo and woods cross refineries that will allow us to process a greater degree of these lower cost crude oils. in recent years, the spread or differential between these lower cost heavy/sour crude oils and higher priced light/sweet crude oils has widened. a substantial or prolonged decrease in these crude oil differentials could negatively impact our earnings and cash flows. we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control. these projects may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, a component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. we may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may or may not produce the results intended. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of matter into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal. over the years, there have been and continue to be ongoing communications, including notices of violations, and discussions about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. -22- table of contents compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed of. we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. we cannot predict what additional health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all phases of the refining industry. we are not engaged in any significant petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. if we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, both within and outside of our industry, there could be material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. other refiners could expand existing facilities or build new ones in our markets and significantly affect our profitability. for example, arizona clean fuels yuma, llc has obtained a permit to construct a 150,000 bpd refinery in arizona and is currently seeking financing for that project. -23- table of contents we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers. the renewal or replacement of existing sales agreements with our customers depends on a number of factors outside our control, including competition from other refiners and the demand for refined products in the markets that we serve. loss of, or reduction in amounts purchased by our major customers could have an adverse effect on us to the extent that, because of market limitations or transportation constraints, we are not able to correspondingly increase sales to other purchasers. a material decrease in the supply of crude oil available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels. in order to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for new crude oil supplies. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. in addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. the potential operation of new refined product transportation pipelines or disruption or proration of existing pipelines could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets, including el paso, albuquerque and phoenix. the longhorn pipeline is an approximately 72,000 bpd common carrier pipeline that delivers refined products utilizing a direct route from the texas gulf coast to el paso and, through interconnections with third-party common carrier pipelines, into the arizona market. deliveries of refined products shipped on the longhorn pipeline increased significantly during 2007, and we believe the longhorn pipeline is currently operating near full capacity. longhorn partners pipeline, l.p., owner of the longhorn pipeline, has also announced a planned expansion of its pipeline throughput capacity from 72,000 bpd to 125,000 bpd. also in 2007, kinder morgan completed an expansion of its el paso, texas to tucson and phoenix, arizona pipeline, increasing its capacity to approximately 200,000 bpd. increased supplies of refined product delivered by the longhorn pipeline and kinder morgan el paso to phoenix pipeline could result in additional downward pressure on wholesale refined product prices and refined product margins in el paso, arizona and related markets. an additional factor that could affect some of our markets is the presence of pipeline capacity from the west coast into our arizona markets. additional increases in shipments of refined products from the west coast into the arizona markets could result in additional downward pressure on refined product prices in these markets. in addition to the projects described above, other projects have been explored from time to time by refiners and other entities which if completed, could result in further increases in the supply of products to our markets. in the case of the albuquerque market, the common carrier pipeline we use to serve this market out of el paso currently operates at near capacity. however, through our relationship with hep, our navajo refinery has pipeline access to the albuquerque vicinity and to bloomfield, new mexico, that will permit us to deliver a total of up to 45,000 bpd of light products to these locations, thereby eliminating the risk of future pipeline constraints on shipments to albuquerque. if needed, additional pump stations could further increase hep pipeline capabilities. any future pipeline constraints or disruptions affecting our ability to transport refined products to arizona or albuquerque could, if sustained, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information on competition in our markets due to new product transportation pipelines or proration of existing pipelines, see markets and competition under the navajo refinery discussion under items 1 and 2, business and properties. -24- table of contents we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the distribution network for our refined products and we own a significant equity interest in hep. we currently own a 45% interest in hep, including the 2% general partner interest. hep operates a system of refined product pipelines and distribution terminals in texas, new mexico, utah, arizona, idaho, washington and oklahoma. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting refined products through its pipelines, by leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, by charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves our refineries in new mexico and utah under two 15-year pipelines and terminals agreements expiring in 2019 and 2020. the agreements provide that we transport or terminal volumes on certain of hep facilities that result in revenues to hep at least equal to specified minimum revenue amounts annually. furthermore, through our 45% ownership of hep, we record our share of hep earnings and receive distributions from hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on its significant customers, including us, competition from other pipelines, environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations, operational hazards and risks, pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge, limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep debt covenants, and other financial, operational and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks adversely impacting hep could affect our distribution system or the earnings and cash flows we receive from hep and thereby adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in our operations. we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. if we lose any of our key personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. -25- table of contents we are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on september 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are not known at this time. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income plus (i) interest expense, net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation, depletion and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. we are reporting ebitda only from continuing operations. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda from continuing operations. years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in thousands) income from continuing operations $ 334,128 $ 246,898 $ 164,026 add provision for income tax 165,316 136,603 99,626 add interest expense 1,086 1,076 5,101 subtract interest income (15,089 ) (9,757 ) (6,901 ) add depreciation, depletion and amortization 43,456 39,721 40,547 ebitda from continuing operations $ 528,897 $ 414,541 $ 302,399 reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. we calculate refinery gross margin and net operating margin using net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold. these two margins do not include the effect of depreciation, depletion and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. -48- table of contents refinery gross margin refinery gross margin per barrel is the difference between average net sales price and average cost of products per barrel of produced refined products. refinery gross margin for each of our refineries and for all of our refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery net sales $ 89.68 $ 79.62 $ 69.11 less cost of products 74.10 64.25 55.50 refinery gross margin $ 15.58 $ 15.37 $ 13.61 woods cross refinery net sales $ 90.09 $ 82.09 $ 69.13 less cost of products 69.40 64.99 59.51 refinery gross margin $ 20.69 $ 17.10 $ 9.62 consolidated net sales $ 89.77 $ 80.21 $ 69.12 less cost of products 73.03 64.43 56.50 refinery gross margin $ 16.74 $ 15.78 $ 12.62 net operating margin net operating margin per barrel is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel of produced refined products. net operating margin for each of our refineries and for all of our refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery refinery gross margin $ 15.58 $ 15.37 $ 13.61 less refinery operating expenses 4.30 4.74 3.94 net operating margin $ 11.28 $ 10.63 $ 9.67 woods cross refinery refinery gross margin $ 20.69 $ 17.10 $ 9.62 less refinery operating expenses 4.86 5.13 4.61 net operating margin $ 15.83 $ 11.97 $ 5.01 consolidated refinery gross margin $ 16.74 $ 15.78 $ 12.62 less refinery operating expenses 4.43 4.83 4.11 net operating margin $ 12.31 $ 10.95 $ 8.51 -49- table of contents below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for (i) net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold, and (ii) net operating margin and refinery gross margin. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. reconciliations of refined product sales from produced products sold to total sales and other revenue years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 navajo refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 89.68 $ 79.62 $ 69.11 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 88,920 79,940 80,110 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 2,910,636 $ 2,323,160 $ 2,020,787 woods cross refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 90.09 $ 82.09 $ 69.13 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 26,130 25,150 26,390 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 859,229 $ 753,566 $ 665,884 sum of refined product sales from produced products sold from our two refineries (4) $ 3,769,865 $ 3,076,726 $ 2,686,671 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 383,396 480,641 273,608 total refined products sales 4,153,261 3,557,367 2,960,279 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 491,150 323,002 add other refining segment revenue (3) 145,753 141,605 68,056 total refining segment revenue 4,790,164 4,021,974 3,028,335 add hep sales and other revenue 36,034 add corporate and other revenues 1,578 1,752 1,772 subtract consolidations and eliminations (509 ) (19,828 ) sales and other revenues $ 4,791,742 $ 4,023,217 $ 3,046,313 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil and enter into buy/sell exchanges in excess of the needs to supply our refineries. certain direct sales of this excess crude oil are made to purchasers or users of crude oil. under new accounting guidance, these sales and related purchases starting april 1, 2006 are being measured at fair value and accounted for as revenues with the related acquisition costs included as cost of products sold. prior to april 1, 2006, sales and cost of sales attributable to such excess crude oil direct sales were netted and presented in cost of products sold. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the incremental revenues associated with holly asphalt subsequent to february 2005 and revenue derived from sulfur credit sales. (4) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 average sales prices per produced barrel sold $ 89.77 $ 80.21 $ 69.12 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 115,050 105,090 106,500 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 3,769,865 $ 3,076,726 $ 2,686,671 -50- table of contents reconciliation of average cost of products per produced barrel sold to total costs of products sold years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 navajo refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 74.10 $ 64.25 $ 55.50 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 88,920 79,940 80,110 times number of days in period 365 365 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 2,404,975 $ 1,874,693 $ 1,622,828 woods cross refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 69.40 $ 64.99 $ 59.51 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 26,130 25,150 26,390 times number of days in period 365 365 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 661,899 $ 596,592 $ 573,221 sum of cost of products for produced products sold from our two refineries (4) $ 3,066,874 $ 2,471,285 $ 2,196,049 add refined product costs from purchased products sold, certain hedging gains and rounding (1) 374,432 473,903 274,948 total refined cost of products sold 3,441,306 2,945,188 2,470,997 add crude oil cost of direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 492,222 323,337 add other refining segment costs of products sold (3) 69,960 81,388 47,641 total refining segment cost of products sold 4,003,488 3,349,913 2,518,638 add corporate and other costs subtract consolidations and eliminations (509 ) (19,828 ) costs of products sold (exclusive of depreciation, depletion and amortization) $ 4,003,488 $ 3,349,404 $ 2,498,810 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments. additionally during 2005, we entered into petroleum futures transactions hedging forecasted diesel fuel sales. the positions were fully liquidated during august to november 2005 resulting in gains of $3.2 million for the year ending december 31, 2005, which are recorded as a reduction in cost of products sold. (2) we purchase crude oil and enter into buy/sell exchanges in excess of the needs to supply our refineries. certain direct sales of this excess crude oil are made to purchasers or users of crude oil. under new accounting guidance, these sales and related purchases starting april 1, 2006 are being measured at fair value and accounted for as revenues with the related acquisition costs included as cost of products sold. prior to april 1, 2006, sales and cost of sales attributable to such excess crude oil direct sales were netted and presented in cost of products sold. (3) other refining segment costs of products sold includes the incremental costs of products for holly asphalt subsequent to february 2005 and costs attributable to sulfur credit sales. (4) the above calculations of costs of products from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 73.03 $ 64.43 $ 56.50 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 115,050 105,090 106,500 times number of days in period 365 365 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 3,066,874 $ 2,471,285 $ 2,196,049 -51- table of contents reconciliation of average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 navajo refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 4.30 $ 4.74 $ 3.94 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 88,920 79,940 80,110 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 139,560 $ 138,304 $ 115,206 woods cross refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 4.86 $ 5.13 $ 4.61 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 26,130 25,150 26,390 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 46,352 $ 47,092 $ 44,405 sum of refinery operating expenses per produced products sold from our two refineries (2) $ 185,912 $ 185,396 $ 159,611 add other refining segment operating expenses and rounding (1) 23,357 23,015 20,545 total refining segment operating expenses 209,269 208,411 180,156 add hep operating expenses 11,836 add corporate and other costs 12 49 59 operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation, depletion and amortization) $ 209,281 $ 208,460 $ 192,051 (1) other refining segment operating expenses include the marketing costs associated with our refining segment and the incremental operating expenses of holly asphalt subsequent to february 2005. (2) the above calculations of refinery operating expenses from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 4.43 $ 4.83 $ 4.11 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 115,050 105,090 106,500 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 185,912 $ 185,396 $ 159,611 reconciliation of net operating margin per barrel to refinery gross margin per barrel to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 navajo refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 11.28 $ 10.63 $ 9.67 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 4.30 4.74 3.94 refinery gross margin per barrel 15.58 15.37 13.61 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 74.10 64.25 55.50 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 89.68 $ 79.62 $ 69.11 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 88,920 79,940 80,110 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 2,910,636 $ 2,323,160 $ 2,020,787 -52- table of contents years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 woods cross refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 15.83 $ 11.97 $ 5.01 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 4.86 5.13 4.61 refinery gross margin per barrel 20.69 17.10 9.62 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 69.40 64.99 59.51 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 90.09 $ 82.09 $ 69.13 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 26,130 25,150 26,390 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 859,229 $ 753,566 $ 665,884 sum of refined product sales from produced products sold from our two refineries (4) $ 3,769,865 $ 3,076,726 $ 2,686,671 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 383,396 480,641 273,608 total refined product sales 4,153,261 3,557,367 2,960,279 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 491,150 323,002 add other refining segment revenue (3) 145,753 141,605 68,056 total refining segment revenue 4,790,164 4,021,974 3,028,335 add hep sales and other revenues 36,034 add corporate and other revenues 1,578 1,752 1,772 subtract consolidations and eliminations (509 ) (19,828 ) sales and other revenues $ 4,791,742 $ 4,023,217 $ 3,046,313 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil and enter into buy/sell exchanges in excess of the needs to supply our refineries. certain direct sales of this excess crude oil are made to purchasers or users of crude oil. under new accounting guidance, these sales and related purchases starting april 1, 2006 are being measured at fair value and accounted for as revenues with the related acquisition costs included as cost of products sold. prior to april 1, 2006, sales and cost of sales attributable to such excess crude oil direct sales were netted and presented in cost of products sold. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the revenues associated with holly asphalt subsequent to february 2005 and revenue derived from sulfur credit sales. (4) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2007 2006 2005 net operating margin per barrel $ 12.31 $ 10.95 $ 8.51 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 4.43 4.83 4.11 refinery gross margin per barrel 16.74 15.78 12.62 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 73.03 64.43 56.50 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 89.77 $ 80.21 $ 69.12 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 115,050 105,090 106,500 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 3,769,865 $ 3,076,726 $ 2,686,671 -53- table of contentsrisk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, product and crude pipeline capacities, changes in transportation costs, accidents or interruptions in transportation, competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve, and factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates based upon worldwide and local market conditions. our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results therefore depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flows. also, crude oil supply contracts are generally short-term contracts with market-responsive pricing provisions. we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. in addition, we currently process volumes of lower cost crude oils, such as regional sour, heavy canadian and black wax. as part of our current capital initiatives, we plan on providing additional flexibility to both our navajo and woods cross refineries that will allow us to process a greater degree of these lower cost crude oils. in recent years, the spread or differential between these lower cost heavy/sour crude oils and higher priced light/sweet crude oils has widened. a substantial or prolonged decrease in these crude oil differentials could negatively impact our earnings and cash flows. -22- table of contents we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. additionally, our growth strategy includes projects that permit access to new and/or more profitable markets such as our unev pipeline joint venture, a 12-inch refined products pipeline running from salt lake city, utah to las vegas, nevada that is currently under construction and in which our subsidiary owns a 75% interest. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control, including: denial or delay in issuing requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; compliance with or liability under environmental regulations; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters or other events (such as equipment malfunctions, explosions, fires or spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; and/or nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors or sub-contractors involved with a project. these projects may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. in addition, a component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations; difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; difficulties in achieving anticipated operational improvements; incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. we may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. -23- table of contents to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may not produce a return on investment. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. one or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. we have taken significant measures to expand and upgrade units in our refineries by installing new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve refinery capacity. the installation and redesign of key equipment at our refineries involves significant uncertainties, including the following: our upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels; the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design and/or specifications and redesign or modification of the equipment may be required to correct equipment that does not perform as expected, which could require facility shutdowns until the equipment has been redesigned or modified. any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment, or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we expect to execute turnarounds at our refineries every three to five years, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties. these risks include delays and incurrence of additional and unforeseen costs. the turnarounds allow us to perform maintenance, upgrades, overhaul and repair of process equipment and materials, during which time all or a portion of the refinery will be under scheduled downtime. the woods cross refinery turnaround occurred in august/september, 2008, and the navajo refinery turnaround occurred in january/february, 2009. we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, energy, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal or may require operational changes, which may involve significant costs. furthermore, a violation of permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or refinery shutdowns. in addition, major modifications of our operations due to changes in the law could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. over the years, there have been and continue to be ongoing communications, including notices of violations, and discussions about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed. -24- table of contents we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. we cannot predict what additional health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. however, new environmental laws and regulations, including new regulations relating to alternative energy sources and the risk of global climate change, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. there is growing consensus that some form of regulation will be forthcoming at the federal level in the united states with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides). also, new federal or state legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas where we conduct business could adversely affect our operations and demand for our products. the costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. from time to time, new federal energy policy legislation is enacted by the u.s. congress. for example, in december 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act, which, among other provisions, mandates annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. these statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. in the near term, the new renewable fuel standard presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining industries and may require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased ethanol use. other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties, and item 3, legal proceedings. insufficient ethanol supplies or disruption in ethanol supply may disrupt our ability to market ethanol blended fuels. if we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient quantities of ethanol to support our blending needs, our sale of ethanol blended gasoline could be interrupted or suspended which could result in lower profits. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry. -25- table of contents we are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. if we are unable to compete effectively with these competitors, both within and outside of our industry, there could be material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. portions of our operations in the areas we operate may be impacted by competitors plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. the more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. there are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the united states. we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers. the renewal or replacement of existing sales agreements with our customers depends on a number of factors outside our control, including competition from other refiners and the demand for refined products in the markets that we serve. loss of, or reduction in amounts purchased by our major customers could have an adverse effect on us to the extent that, because of market limitations or transportation constraints, we are not able to correspondingly increase sales to other purchasers. a material decrease in the supply of crude oil available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels. in order to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for new crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. in addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. if we are unable to secure additional crude oil supplies of sufficient quality or crude pipeline expansion to our refineries, we will be unable to take full advantage of current and future expansion of our refineries production capacities. the potential operation of new refined product transportation pipelines or disruption or proration of existing pipelines could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets, including el paso, albuquerque and phoenix. if one of the major refined products pipelines becomes inoperative, we would be required to keep refined products in inventory or supply refined products to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by additional tanker trucks from the refinery, which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability. the longhorn pipeline is an approximately 72,000 bpd common carrier pipeline that delivers refined products utilizing a direct route from the texas gulf coast to el paso and, through interconnections with third-party common carrier pipelines, into the -26- table of contents arizona market. longhorn pipeline is a wholly-owned subsidiary of flying j inc. on december 22, 2008, both longhorn pipeline and flying j inc. filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under chapter 11 of the united states bankruptcy code in the united states bankruptcy court for the district of delaware. the status of current shipping levels is currently unknown. the future ownership and operation of the longhorn pipeline is uncertain pending resolution of the bankruptcy proceedings. increased supplies of refined product delivered by the longhorn pipeline and kinder morgan el paso to phoenix pipeline could result in additional downward pressure on wholesale refined product prices and refined product margins in el paso, arizona and related markets. an additional factor that could affect some of our markets is the presence of pipeline capacity from the west coast into our arizona markets. additional increases in shipments of refined products from the west coast into the arizona markets could result in additional downward pressure on refined product prices in these markets. in addition to the projects described above, other projects have been explored from time to time by refiners and other entities which if completed, could result in further increases in the supply of products to our markets. for example, competitors may rely on alternate methods of transportation, such as trucking, to increase the volume of refined products entering our markets. such alternatives may decrease the price of refined products or decrease our ability to market our refined products in those markets. in the case of the albuquerque market, the common carrier pipeline we use to serve this market out of el paso currently operates at near capacity. however, through our relationship with hep, our navajo refinery has pipeline access to the albuquerque vicinity and to bloomfield, new mexico, that will permit us to deliver a total of up to 45,000 bpd of light products to these locations, thereby eliminating the risk of future pipeline constraints on shipments to albuquerque. if needed, additional pump stations could further increase hep pipeline capabilities. any future pipeline constraints or disruptions affecting our ability to transport refined products to arizona or albuquerque could, if sustained, adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. for additional information on competition in our markets due to new product transportation pipelines or proration of existing pipelines, see markets and competition under the navajo refinery discussion under items 1 and 2, business and properties. we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the crude supply and distribution network that serve our refineries and we own a significant equity interest in hep. we currently own a 46% interest in hep, including the 2% general partner interest. hep operates a system of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines, distribution terminals and refinery tankage in texas, new mexico, utah, arizona, idaho, washington and oklahoma. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, by leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, by charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves our refineries in new mexico and utah under three 15-year pipelines and terminals and tankage agreements expiring in 2019 through 2023. furthermore, our financial statements include the consolidated results of hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on its significant customers, including us, competition from other pipelines, environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations, operational hazards and risks, pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge, limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep debt covenants, and other financial, operational and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect hep as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as hep is a consolidated subsidiary. additionally, these risks could affect hep ability to continue operations which could affect their ability to serve our supply and distribution network needs. -27- table of contents for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, power failures, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in our operations and may affect our ability to meet marketing commitments. furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. if any refinery were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. we maintain significant insurance coverage, but it does not cover all potential losses, costs or liabilities, and our business interruption insurance coverage generally does not apply unless a business interruption exceeds 45 days. we could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. our ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control. the occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. in recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. as a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice, or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. in addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. the unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if we lose any of our key personnel, our ability to manage our business and continue our growth could be negatively impacted. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance, non-compete agreements, or employment agreements with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. a shortage of trained workers due to retirements or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations. -28- table of contents as of december 31, 2008, approximately 35% of our employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements expiring in 2009 through 2010. we may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. a failure to do so may increase our costs. in addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are exposed to the credit risks of our key customers. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on september 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are not known at this time. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. future terrorist attacks could lead to even stronger, more costly initiatives or regulatory requirements. uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. in addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. our petroleum business financial results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which may cause volatility in the price of our common stock. demand for gasoline products is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and road construction work. as a result, our results of operations for the first and fourth calendar quarters are generally lower than for those for the second and third quarters. the effects of seasonal demand for gasoline are partially offset by seasonality in demand for diesel fuel, which in the southwest region of the united states is generally higher in winter months as east-west trucking traffic moves south to avoid winter conditions on northern routes. however, unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and/or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which we sell our petroleum products could have the effect of reducing demand for gasoline and diesel fuel which could result in lower prices and reduce operating margins. ongoing maintenance of effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act could cause us to incur additional expenditures of time and financial resources. we regularly document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on our controls over financial reporting. if, in the future, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls and, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to incur substantial expenditures of management time and financial resources to identify and correct any such failure. -29- table of contents additionally, the failure to comply with section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may be adversely affected. a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets, and our stock price may decline. product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. product liability is a significant commercial risk. substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. there can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. failure of our products to meet required specifications could result in product liability claims from our shippers and customers arising from contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks and/or defective quality fuels. if the market value of our inventory declines to an amount less than our lifo basis, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales, which would adversely affect our earnings. the nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial quantities of crude oil, refined petroleum product and blendstock inventories. because crude oil and refined petroleum products are commodities, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. because certain of our refining inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market value under the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) inventory valuation methodology, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our lifo basis. a material write-down could affect our operating income and profitability. from time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to obtain the necessary funds from financing activities. we have significant short-term cash needs to satisfy working capital requirements such as crude oil purchases which fluctuate with the pricing and sourcing of crude oil. we generally purchase crude oil for our refineries with cash generated from our operations. if the price of crude oil increases significantly, we may not have sufficient cash flow or borrowing capacity, and may not be able to sufficiently increase borrowing capacity, under our existing credit facilities to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at full capacity. our failure to operate our refineries at full capacity could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also have significant long-term needs for cash, including those to support our expansion and upgrade plans, as well as for regulatory compliance. if credit markets tighten, it may become more difficult to obtain cash from third party sources. if we cannot generate cash flow or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to comply with regulatory deadlines or pursue our business strategies, in which case our operations may not perform as well as we currently expect and we could be subject to regulatory action. changes in our credit profile may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at full capacity. an unfavorable credit profile could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us. due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. this in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at full capacity. a failure to operate our refineries at full capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. -30- table of contents our debt agreements contain operating and financial restrictions that might constrain our business and financing activities. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facilities and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. for example, our revolving credit facility imposes usual and customary requirements for this type of credit facility, including: (i) maintenance of certain levels of interest coverage and leverage ratios; (ii) limitations on liens, investments, indebtedness and dividends; (iii) a prohibition on changes in control and (iv) restrictions on engaging in mergers, consolidations and sales of assets, entering into certain lease obligations, and making certain investments or capital expenditures. if we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in the credit facility or another event of default occurs under the facility, the maturity of the loan could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our future working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. should we desire to undertake a transaction that is prohibited by the covenants in our credit facilities, we will need to obtain consent under our credit facilities. such refinancing may not be possible or may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. in addition, our obligations under our credit facilities are secured by inventory, receivables and pledged cash assets. if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facilities when due, the lenders could seek to foreclose on the assets or we may be required to contribute additional capital to our subsidiaries. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may need to use current cash flow to fund our pension and postretirement health care obligations, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position. we have benefit obligations in connection with our noncontributory defined benefit pension plans that provided retirement benefits for substantially all of our employees. however, effective january 1, 2007, the retirement plan was frozen to new employees not covered by collective bargaining agreements with labor unions. to the extent an employee not covered by a collective bargaining agreement was hired prior to january 1, 2007, and elected to participate in automatic contributions features under our defined contribution plan, their participation in future benefits of the retirement plan was frozen. we expect to contribute between $10.0 million to $20.0 million to the retirement plan in 2009. future adverse changes in the financial markets could result in significant charges to stockholders equity and additional significant increases in future pension expense and funding requirements. we also have benefit obligations in connection with our unfunded postretirement health care plans that provide health care benefits as part of the voluntary early retirement program offered to eligible employees. as part of the early retirement program, we allow qualified retiring employees to continue coverage at a reduced cost under our group medical plans until normal retirement age. additionally, we maintain an unfunded postretirement medical plan whereby certain retirees between the ages of 62 and 65 can receive benefits paid by us. as of december 31, 2008, the total accumulated postretirement benefit obligation under our postretirement medical plans was $6.7 million. increased participation in this program and/or increasing medical costs may affect our ability to pay required health care benefits causing us to have to divert funds away from other areas of the business to pay their costs. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of ebitda to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as net income plus (i) interest expense, net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under accounting principles generally accepted in the united states; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. we are reporting ebitda only from continuing operations. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda from continuing operations. years ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in thousands) income from continuing operations $ 120,558 $ 334,128 $ 246,898 add provision for income tax 64,826 165,316 136,603 add interest expense 23,955 1,086 1,076 subtract interest income (10,824 ) (15,089 ) (9,757 ) add depreciation and amortization 63,789 43,456 39,721 ebitda from continuing operations $ 262,304 $ 528,897 $ 414,541 reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and absolute basis. we calculate refinery gross margin and net operating margin using net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold. these two margins do not include the effect of depreciation and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. -55- table of contents refinery gross margin refinery gross margin per barrel is the difference between average net sales price and average cost of products per barrel of produced refined products. refinery gross margin for each of our refineries and for both of our refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery net sales $ 108.52 $ 89.68 $ 79.62 less cost of products 98.97 74.10 64.25 refinery gross margin $ 9.55 $ 15.58 $ 15.37 woods cross refinery net sales $ 110.07 $ 90.09 $ 82.09 less cost of products 93.47 69.40 64.99 refinery gross margin $ 16.60 $ 20.69 $ 17.10 consolidated net sales $ 108.83 $ 89.77 $ 80.21 less cost of products 97.87 73.03 64.43 refinery gross margin $ 10.96 $ 16.74 $ 15.78 net operating margin net operating margin per barrel is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel of produced refined products. net operating margin for each of our refineries and for both of our refineries on a consolidated basis is calculated as shown below. years ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 average per produced barrel: navajo refinery refinery gross margin $ 9.55 $ 15.58 $ 15.37 less refinery operating expenses 4.58 4.30 4.74 net operating margin $ 4.97 $ 11.28 $ 10.63 woods cross refinery refinery gross margin $ 16.60 $ 20.69 $ 17.10 less refinery operating expenses 7.42 4.86 5.13 net operating margin $ 9.18 $ 15.83 $ 11.97 consolidated refinery gross margin $ 10.96 $ 16.74 $ 15.78 less refinery operating expenses 5.14 4.43 4.83 net operating margin $ 5.82 $ 12.31 $ 10.95 -56- table of contents below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for (i) net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold, and (ii) net operating margin and refinery gross margin. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. reconciliations of refined product sales from produced products sold to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) navajo refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 108.52 $ 89.68 $ 79.62 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 89,580 88,920 79,940 times number of days in period 366 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 3,557,967 $ 2,910,636 $ 2,323,160 woods cross refinery average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 110.07 $ 90.09 $ 82.09 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 22,370 26,130 25,150 times number of days in period 366 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 901,189 $ 859,229 $ 753,566 sum of refined product sales from produced products sold from our two refineries (4) $ 4,459,156 $ 3,769,865 $ 3,076,726 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 384,073 383,396 480,641 total refined products sales 4,843,229 4,153,261 3,557,367 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 860,642 491,150 323,002 add other refining segment revenue (3) 133,578 145,753 141,605 total refining segment revenue 5,837,449 4,790,164 4,021,974 add hep segment sales and other revenues 101,750 add corporate and other revenues 2,641 1,578 1,752 subtract consolidations and eliminations (74,172 ) (509 ) sales and other revenues $ 5,867,668 $ 4,791,742 $ 4,023,217 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. prior to april 1, 2006, sales and cost of sales attributable to such excess crude oil direct sales were netted and presented in cost of products sold. additionally, we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at carryover cost. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the incremental revenues associated with holly asphalt company and revenue derived from feedstock and sulfur credit sales. (4) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 108.83 $ 89.77 $ 80.21 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 111,950 115,050 105,090 times number of days in period 366 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 4,459,156 $ 3,769,865 $ 3,076,726 -57- table of contents reconciliation of average cost of products per produced barrel sold to total cost of products sold years ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) navajo refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 98.97 $ 74.10 $ 64.25 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 89,580 88,920 79,940 times number of days in period 366 365 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 3,244,858 $ 2,404,975 $ 1,874,693 woods cross refinery average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 93.47 $ 69.40 $ 64.99 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 22,370 26,130 25,150 times number of days in period 366 365 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 765,278 $ 661,899 $ 596,592 sum of cost of products for produced products sold from our two refineries (4) $ 4,010,136 $ 3,066,874 $ 2,471,285 add refined product costs from purchased products sold and rounding (1) 389,944 374,432 473,903 total refined cost of products sold 4,400,080 3,441,306 2,945,188 add crude oil cost of direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 853,360 492,222 323,337 add other refining segment cost of products sold (3) 101,144 69,960 81,388 total refining segment cost of products sold 5,354,584 4,003,488 3,349,913 subtract consolidations and eliminations (73,885 ) (509 ) cost of products sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 5,280,699 $ 4,003,488 $ 3,349,404 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products, or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. prior to april 1, 2006, sales and cost of sales attributable to such excess crude oil direct sales were netted and presented in cost of products sold. additionally, we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at carryover cost. (3) other refining segment cost of products sold includes the cost of products for holly asphalt company and costs attributable to feedstock and sulfur credit sales. (4) the above calculations of cost of products for produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 97.87 $ 73.03 $ 64.43 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 111,950 115,050 105,090 times number of days in period 366 365 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 4,010,136 $ 3,066,874 $ 2,471,285 -58- table of contents reconciliation of average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) navajo refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 4.58 $ 4.30 $ 4.74 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 89,580 88,920 79,940 times number of days in period 366 365 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 150,161 $ 139,560 $ 138,304 woods cross refinery average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 7.42 $ 4.86 $ 5.13 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 22,370 26,130 25,150 times number of days in period 366 365 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 60,751 $ 46,352 $ 47,092 sum of refinery operating expenses per produced products sold from our two refineries (2) $ 210,912 $ 185,912 $ 185,396 add other refining segment operating expenses and rounding (1) 21,599 23,357 23,015 total refining segment operating expenses 232,511 209,269 208,411 add hep segment operating expenses 35,218 add corporate and other costs (159 ) 12 49 operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 267,570 $ 209,281 $ 208,460 (1) other refining segment operating expenses include the marketing costs associated with our refining segment and the operating expenses of holly asphalt company. (2) the above calculations of refinery operating expenses per produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 5.14 $ 4.43 $ 4.83 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 111,950 115,050 105,090 times number of days in period 366 365 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 210,912 $ 185,912 $ 185,396 reconciliation of net operating margin per barrel to refinery gross margin per barrel to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) navajo refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 4.97 $ 11.28 $ 10.63 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 4.58 4.30 4.74 refinery gross margin per barrel 9.55 15.58 15.37 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 98.97 74.10 64.25 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 108.52 $ 89.68 $ 79.62 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 89,580 88,920 79,940 times number of days in period 366 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 3,557,967 $ 2,910,636 $ 2,323,160 -59- table of contents years ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) woods cross refinery net operating margin per barrel $ 9.18 $ 15.83 $ 11.97 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 7.42 4.86 5.13 refinery gross margin per barrel 16.60 20.69 17.10 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 93.47 69.40 64.99 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 110.07 $ 90.09 $ 82.09 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 22,370 26,130 25,150 times number of days in period 366 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 901,189 $ 859,229 $ 753,566 sum of refined product sales from produced products sold from our two refineries (4) $ 4,459,156 $ 3,769,865 $ 3,076,726 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding (1) 384,073 383,396 480,641 total refined product sales 4,843,229 4,153,261 3,557,367 add direct sales of excess crude oil (2) 860,642 491,150 323,002 add other refining segment revenue (3) 133,578 145,753 141,605 total refining segment revenue 5,837,449 4,790,164 4,021,974 add hep segment sales and other revenues 101,750 add corporate and other revenues 2,641 1,578 1,752 subtract consolidations and eliminations (74,172 ) (509 ) sales and other revenues $ 5,867,668 $ 4,791,742 $ 4,023,217 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. prior to april 1, 2006, sales and cost of sales attributable to such excess crude oil direct sales were netted and presented in cost of products sold. additionally, we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at carryover cost. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the revenues associated with holly asphalt company and revenue derived from feedstock and sulfur credit sales. (4) the above calculations of refined product sales from produced products sold can also be computed on a consolidated basis. these amounts may not calculate exactly due to rounding of reported numbers. years ended december 31, 2008 2007 2006 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) net operating margin per barrel $ 5.82 $ 12.31 $ 10.95 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 5.14 4.43 4.83 refinery gross margin per barrel 10.96 16.74 15.78 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 97.87 73.03 64.43 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 108.83 $ 89.77 $ 80.21 times sales of produced refined products sold (bpd) 111,950 115,050 105,090 times number of days in period 366 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 4,459,156 $ 3,769,865 $ 3,076,726 -60- table of contentsrisk factors investing in us involves a degree of risk, including the risks described below. our operating results have been, and will continue to be, affected by a wide variety of risk factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could have adverse effects on profitability during any particular period. you should carefully consider the following risk factors together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including the financial statements and related notes, when deciding to invest in us. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business operations. if any of the following risks were to actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. the prices of crude oil and refined products materially affect our profitability, and are dependent upon many factors that are beyond our control, including general market demand and economic conditions, seasonal and weather-related factors and governmental regulations and policies. among these factors is the demand for crude oil and refined products, which is largely driven by the conditions of local and worldwide economies as well as by weather patterns and the taxation of these products relative to other energy sources. governmental regulations and policies, particularly in the areas of taxation, energy and the environment, also have a significant impact on our activities. operating results can be affected by these industry factors, product and crude pipeline capacities, changes in transportation costs, accidents or interruptions in transportation, competition in the particular geographic areas that we serve, and factors that are specific to us, such as the success of particular marketing programs and the efficiency of our refinery operations. the demand for crude oil and refined products can also be reduced due to a local or national recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by businesses and consumers on gasoline and diesel fuel, higher gasoline prices due to higher crude oil prices, a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles or alternative fuel vehicles (such as ethanol or wider adoption of gas/electric hybrid vehicles), or an increase in vehicle fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating or encouraging higher fuel economy or the use of alternative fuel. we do not produce crude oil and must purchase all our crude oil, the price of which fluctuates based upon worldwide and local market conditions. our profitability depends largely on the spread between market prices for refined petroleum products and crude oil prices. this margin is continually changing and may fluctuate significantly from time to time. crude oil and refined products are commodities whose price levels are determined by market forces beyond our control. additionally, due to the seasonality of refined products markets and refinery maintenance schedules, results of operations for any particular quarter of a fiscal year are not necessarily indicative of results for the full year. in general, prices for refined products are influenced by the price of crude oil. although an increase or decrease in the price for crude oil may result in a similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products, there may be a time lag in the realization of the similar increase or decrease in prices for refined products. the effect of changes in crude oil prices on operating results therefore depends in part on how quickly refined product prices adjust to reflect these changes. a substantial or prolonged increase in crude oil prices without a corresponding increase in refined product prices, a substantial or prolonged decrease in refined product prices without a corresponding decrease in crude oil prices, or a substantial or prolonged decrease in demand for refined products could have a significant negative effect on our earnings and cash flows. also, crude oil supply contracts are generally short-term contracts with market-responsive pricing provisions. we purchase our refinery feedstocks weeks before manufacturing and selling the refined products. price level changes during the period between purchasing feedstocks and selling the manufactured refined products from these feedstocks could have a significant effect on our financial results. we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategies to grow our business. further, if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner, or if the market conditions assumed in our project economics deteriorate, our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. one of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of new refinery processing units (or the purchase and refurbishment of used units from another refinery) and the expansion of existing ones. projects are generally initiated to increase the yields of higher-value products, increase the amount of lower cost crude oils that -23- table of contents can be processed, increase refinery production capacity, meet new governmental requirements, or maintain the operations of our existing assets. additionally, our growth strategy includes projects that permit access to new and/or more profitable markets such as our unev pipeline joint venture, a 12-inch refined products pipeline running from salt lake city, utah to las vegas, nevada in which our subsidiary owns a 75% interest. the construction process involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political, and legal uncertainties, most of which are not fully within our control, including: denial or delay in issuing requisite regulatory approvals and/or permits; compliance with or liability under environmental regulations; unplanned increases in the cost of construction materials or labor; disruptions in transportation of modular components and/or construction materials; severe adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, or other events (such as equipment malfunctions explosions, fires, spills) affecting our facilities, or those of vendors and suppliers; shortages of sufficiently skilled labor, or labor disagreements resulting in unplanned work stoppages; market-related increases in a project debt or equity financing costs; and/or nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, vendors, suppliers, contractors, or sub-contractors involved with a project. if we are unable to complete capital projects at their expected costs or in a timely manner our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. delays in making required changes or upgrades to our facilities could subject us to fines or penalties as well as affect our ability to supply certain products we make. in addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. for instance, if we build a new refinery processing unit, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after completion of the project. moreover, we may construct facilities to capture anticipated future growth in demand for refined products in a region in which such growth does not materialize. as a result, new capital investments may not achieve our expected investment return, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our forecasted internal rates of return are also based upon our projections of future market fundamentals which are not within our control, including changes in general economic conditions, available alternative supply and customer demand. in addition, a component of our growth strategy is to selectively acquire complementary assets for our refining operations in order to increase earnings and cash flow. our ability to do so will be dependent upon a number of factors, including our ability to identify attractive acquisition candidates, consummate acquisitions on favorable terms, successfully integrate acquired assets and obtain financing to fund acquisitions and to support our growth, and other factors beyond our control. risks associated with acquisitions include those relating to: diversion of management time and attention from our existing business; challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of operations; difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of an acquired business with those of our existing operations; liability for known or unknown environmental conditions or other contingent liabilities not covered by indemnification or insurance; greater than anticipated expenditures required for compliance with environmental or other regulatory standards or for investments to improve operating results; difficulties in achieving anticipated operational improvements; incurrence of additional indebtedness to finance acquisitions or capital expenditures relating to acquired assets; and issuance of additional equity, which could result in further dilution of the ownership interest of existing stockholders. we may not be successful in acquiring additional assets, and any acquisitions that we do consummate may not produce the anticipated benefits or may have adverse effects on our business and operating results. -24- table of contents our leverage may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, comply with the terms of our indebtedness or capitalize on business opportunities. as of december 31, 2011, the principal amount of our total consolidated outstanding debt was $1,214.4 million, including $535 million of hep debt. our leverage could have important consequences. we require substantial cash flow to meet our payment obligations with respect to our indebtedness. our ability to make scheduled payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness or our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors. we believe that we will have sufficient cash flow from operations, available cash on hand, and available borrowings under our credit agreement to service our indebtedness. however, a significant downturn in our business or other development adversely affecting our cash flow could materially impair our ability to service our indebtedness. if our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to refinance all or a portion of our debt or sell assets. we cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our existing indebtedness at maturity or otherwise or sell assets on terms that are commercially reasonable. we may not be able to obtain funding on acceptable terms or at all because of volatility and uncertainty in the credit and capital markets. this may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. the domestic and global financial markets and economic conditions are disrupted and volatile from time to time due to a variety of factors, including most recently, low consumer confidence, continued high unemployment, geoeconomic and geopolitical issues, weak economic conditions and uncertainty in the financial services sector. in addition, the fixed-income markets have experienced periods of extreme volatility, which negatively impacted market liquidity conditions. as a result, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially at times while the availability of funds from these markets diminished significantly. in particular, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of lending counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets may increase as many lenders and institutional investors increase interest rates, enact tighter lending standards, refuse to refinance existing debt on similar terms or at all and reduce, or in some cases cease, to provide funding to borrowers. in addition, lending counterparties under existing revolving credit facilities and other debt instruments may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations. due to these factors, we cannot be certain that new debt or equity financing will be available on acceptable terms. if funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due. moreover, without adequate funding, we may be unable to execute our growth strategy, complete future acquisitions or announced and future pipeline construction projects, take advantage of other business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. we may incur significant costs to comply with new or changing environmental, energy, health and safety laws and regulations, and face potential exposure for environmental matters. refinery and pipeline operations are subject to federal, state and local laws regulating, among other things, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of petroleum and hazardous substances, the emission and discharge of materials into the environment, waste management, and characteristics and composition of gasoline and diesel fuels, and other matters otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. permits are required under these laws for the operation of our refineries, pipelines and related operations, and these permits are subject to revocation, modification and renewal or may require operational changes, which may involve significant costs. furthermore, a violation of permit conditions or other legal or regulatory requirements could result in substantial fines, criminal sanctions, permit revocations, injunctions, and/or refinery shutdowns. in addition, major modifications of our operations due to changes in the law could require changes to our existing permits or expensive upgrades to our existing pollution control equipment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. over the years, there have been and continue to be ongoing communications, including notices of violations, and discussions about environmental matters between us and federal and state authorities, some of which have resulted or will result in changes to operating procedures and in capital expenditures. compliance with applicable environmental laws, regulations and permits will continue to have an impact on our operations, results of operations and capital requirements. -25- table of contents as is the case with all companies engaged in industries similar to ours, we face potential exposure to future claims and lawsuits involving environmental matters. the matters include soil and water contamination, air pollution, personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by substances which we manufactured, handled, used, released or disposed. we are and have been the subject of various state, federal and private proceedings relating to environmental regulations, conditions and inquiries. current and future environmental regulations are expected to require additional expenditures, including expenditures for investigation and remediation, which may be significant, at our facilities. to the extent that future expenditures for these purposes are material and can be reasonably determined, these costs are disclosed and accrued. our operations are also subject to various laws and regulations relating to occupational health and safety. we maintain safety, training and maintenance programs as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. compliance with applicable health and safety laws and regulations has required and continues to require substantial expenditures. we cannot predict what additional health and environmental legislation or regulations will be enacted or become effective in the future or how existing or future laws or regulations will be administered or interpreted with respect to our operations. however, new environmental laws and regulations, including new regulations relating to alternative energy sources and the risk of global climate change, new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, increased governmental enforcement or other developments could require us to make additional unforeseen expenditures. the epa has begun regulating certain emissions of greenhouse gases, or ghgs, (including carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxides) from large stationary sources like refineries under the authority of the caa, and it is possible that congress could pass federal legislation that creates a comprehensive ghg regulatory program, either directly or indirectly, such as via a federal renewal energy standard. also, new federal or state legislation or regulatory programs that restrict emissions of ghgs in areas where we conduct business could adversely affect our operations and demand for our products. the costs of environmental and safety regulations are already significant and compliance with more stringent laws or regulations or adverse changes in the interpretation of existing regulations by government agencies could have an adverse effect on the financial position and the results of our operations and could require substantial expenditures for the installation and operation of systems and equipment that we do not currently possess. from time to time, new federal energy policy legislation is enacted by the u.s. congress. for example, in december 2007, the u.s. congress passed the energy independence and security act, which, among other provisions, mandates annually increasing levels for the use of renewable fuels such as ethanol, commencing in 2008 and escalating for 15 years, as well as increasing energy efficiency goals, including higher fuel economy standards for motor vehicles, among other steps. these statutory mandates may have the impact over time of offsetting projected increases in the demand for refined petroleum products in certain markets, particularly gasoline. in the near term, the new renewable fuel standard presents ethanol production and logistics challenges for both the ethanol and refining industries and may require additional capital expenditures or expenses by us to accommodate increased ethanol use. other legislative changes may similarly alter the expected demand and supply projections for refined petroleum products in ways that cannot be predicted. for additional information on regulations and related liabilities or potential liabilities affecting our business, see regulation under items 1 and 2, business and properties, and item 3, legal proceedings. the adoption of climate change legislation by congress could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the refined products we produce. in december 2009, the epa determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other ghgs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the epa, contributing to warming of the earth atmosphere and other climatic changes. based on these findings, the epa has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of ghgs under existing provisions of the federal caa. the epa also adopted two sets of rules regulating ghg emissions under the caa, one of which requires a -26- table of contents reduction in emissions of ghgs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of ghgs from certain large stationary sources. the epa rules relating to emissions of ghgs from large stationary sources of emissions are currently subject to a number of legal challenges, but the federal courts have thus far declined to issue any injunctions to prevent the epa from implementing or requiring state environmental agencies to implement the rules. the epa has also adopted rules requiring the reporting of ghg emissions from specified large ghg emission sources in the united states, including petroleum refineries, on an annual basis. in addition, the united states congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of ghgs and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of ghgs primarily through the planned development of ghg emission inventories and/or regional ghg cap and trade programs. these cap and trade programs generally work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and on an annual basis surrender emission allowances. the number of allowances available for purchase is reduced over time in an effort to achieve the overall ghg emission reduction goal. the adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for, the refined products that we produce. consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of ghgs could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of ghgs in the earth atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climatic events. if any such events were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. information technology system failures, network disruptions (whether intentional by a third party or due to natural disaster), breaches of network or data security, or disruption or failure of the network system used to monitor and control pipeline operations could disrupt our operations by impeding our processing of transactions, our ability to protect customer or company information and our financial reporting. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, could be damaged or interrupted by power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, events such as fires, earthquakes, floods, tornadoes and hurricanes, and/or errors by our employees. although we have taken steps to address these concerns by implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. to successfully operate our petroleum refining facilities, we are required to expend significant amounts for capital outlays and operating expenditures. the refining business is characterized by high fixed costs resulting from the significant capital outlays associated with refineries, terminals, pipelines and related facilities. we are dependent on the production and sale of quantities of refined products at refined product margins sufficient to cover operating costs, including any increases in costs resulting from future inflationary pressures or market conditions and increases in costs of fuel and power necessary in operating our facilities. furthermore, future regulatory requirements or competitive pressures could result in additional capital expenditures, which may not produce a return on investment. such capital expenditures may require significant financial resources that may be contingent on our access to capital markets and commercial bank loans. additionally, other matters, such as regulatory requirements or legal actions, may restrict our access to funds for capital expenditures. our refineries consist of many processing units, a number of which have been in operation for many years. one or more of the units may require unscheduled downtime for unanticipated maintenance or repairs that are more frequent than our scheduled turnaround for such units. scheduled and unscheduled maintenance could reduce our revenues during the period of time that the units are not operating. we have taken significant measures to expand -27- table of contents and upgrade units in our refineries by installing new equipment and redesigning older equipment to improve refinery capacity. the installation and redesign of key equipment at our refineries involves significant uncertainties, including the following: our upgraded equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels; the yield and product quality of new equipment may differ from design and/or specifications and redesign or modification of the equipment may be required to correct equipment that does not perform as expected, which could require facility shutdowns until the equipment has been redesigned or modified. any of these risks associated with new equipment, redesigned older equipment, or repaired equipment could lead to lower revenues or higher costs or otherwise have a negative impact on our future results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we expect to execute turnarounds at our refineries, which involve numerous risks and uncertainties. these risks include delays and incurrence of additional and unforeseen costs. the turnarounds allow us to perform maintenance, upgrades, overhaul and repair of process equipment and materials, during which time all or a portion of the refinery will be under scheduled downtime. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may not be adequately insured. our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, power failures, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. these events might result in a loss of equipment or life or destruction of property, injury, or extensive property damage, as well as a curtailment or an interruption in our operations and may affect our ability to meet marketing commitments. furthermore, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. as a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies could increase. in some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. if we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial position. if any refinery were to experience an interruption in operations, earnings from the refinery could be materially adversely affected (to the extent not recoverable through insurance) because of lost production and repair costs. we maintain significant insurance coverage, but it does not cover all potential losses, costs or liabilities, and our business interruption insurance coverage generally does not apply unless a business interruption exceeds 45 days. we could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of our existing insurance coverage. our ability to obtain and maintain adequate insurance may be affected by conditions in the insurance market over which we have no control. the occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the energy industry is highly capital intensive, and the entire or partial loss of individual facilities can result in significant costs to both industry companies, such as us, and their insurance carriers. in recent years, several large energy industry claims have resulted in significant increases in the level of premium costs and deductible periods for participants in the energy industry. as a result of large energy industry claims, insurance companies that have historically participated in underwriting energy-related facilities may discontinue that practice or demand significantly higher premiums or deductible periods to cover these facilities. if significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, or if other adverse conditions over which we have no control prevail in the insurance market, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at reasonable cost. in addition, we cannot assure you that our insurers will renew our insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal. further, our underwriters could have credit issues that affect their ability to pay claims. the unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. insufficient ethanol, biodiesel, and other advanced biofuel supplies, or disruption in supply, may disrupt our ability to meet rfs2 regulations mandated by the federal government or required in the fuels markets that we serve. -28- table of contents if we are unable to obtain or maintain sufficient quantities of ethanol for our blending needs, our sale of ethanol gasoline (required in several of our markets) could be interrupted or suspended which could result in lower profits. likewise, if we are unable to purchase renewable identification numbers ( rins ), or if our supply of rins is such that we have to pay a significantly higher price for rins to meet our mandated blending volumes of biofuels per the rfs2 regulation, our profits would be significantly lower. if we are unable to pass the costs of compliance with rfs2 on to our customers, our profits would be significantly lower. competition in the refining and marketing industry is intense, and an increase in competition in the markets in which we sell our products could adversely affect our earnings and profitability. we compete with a broad range of refining and marketing companies, including certain multinational oil companies. because of their geographic diversity, larger and more complex refineries, integrated operations and greater resources, some of our competitors may be better able to withstand volatile market conditions, to obtain crude oil in times of shortage and to bear the economic risks inherent in all areas of the refining industry. we are not engaged in petroleum exploration and production activities and do not produce any of the crude oil feedstocks used at our refineries. we do not have a retail business and therefore are dependent upon others for outlets for our refined products. certain of our competitors, however, obtain a portion of their feedstocks from company-owned production and have retail outlets. competitors that have their own production or extensive retail outlets, with brand-name recognition, are at times able to offset losses from refining operations with profits from producing or retailing operations, and may be better positioned to withstand periods of depressed refining margins or feedstock shortages. in recent years there have been several refining and marketing consolidations or acquisitions between entities competing in our geographic market. these transactions could increase the future competitive pressures on us. portions of our operations in the areas we operate may be impacted by competitors plans for expansion projects and refinery improvements that could increase the production of refined products in our areas of operation and significantly affect our profitability. in addition, we compete with other industries that provide alternative means to satisfy the energy and fuel requirements of our industrial, commercial and individual consumers. the more successful these alternatives become as a result of governmental regulations, technological advances, consumer demand, improved pricing or otherwise, the greater the impact on pricing and demand for our products and our profitability. there are presently significant governmental and consumer pressures to increase the use of alternative fuels in the united states. we may be unsuccessful in integrating the operations of the assets we have recently acquired or of any future acquisitions with our operations, and in realizing all or any part of the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions. from time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. for example, we face certain challenges as we continue to integrate the operations of frontier oil corporation, with whom we merged in 2011, into our business. acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly as a result of the acquisitions we recently completed or as a result of future acquisitions. acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management attention from other business concerns. further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition, including the merger in 2011. also, following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business or assets for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. the new and revamped equipment in our facilities may not perform according to expectations which may cause unexpected maintenance and downtime and could have a negative effect on our future results of operations and financial condition. -29- table of contents from time to time, we have major capital investment and various environmental compliance related projects at our refineries. the installation of new equipment and the revamp of key existing equipment involve significant risks and uncertainties, including the following: equipment may not perform at expected throughput levels; actual yields or product quality may differ from design; actual operating costs may be higher than expected; equipment may need to be redesigned, revamped, or replaced for the new units to perform as expected. a material decrease in the supply of crude oil available to our refineries could significantly reduce our production levels. to maintain or increase production levels at our refineries, we must continually contract for crude oil supplies from third parties. a material decrease in crude oil production from the fields that supply our refineries, as a result of depressed commodity prices, lack of drilling activity, natural production declines or otherwise, could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. in addition, any prolonged disruption of a significant pipeline that is used in supplying crude oil to our refineries or the potential operation of a new, converted or expanded crude oil pipeline that transports crude oil to other markets could result in a decline in the volume of crude oil available to our refineries. such an event could result in an overall decline in volumes of refined products processed at our refineries and therefore a corresponding reduction in our cash flow. in addition, the future growth of our operations will depend in part upon whether we can contract for additional supplies of crude oil at a greater rate than the rate of natural decline in our currently connected supplies. if we are unable to secure additional crude oil supplies of sufficient quality or crude pipeline expansion to our refineries, we will be unable to take full advantage of current and future expansion of our refineries production capacities. the disruption or proration of the refined product distribution systems we utilize could negatively impact our profitability. we utilize various common carrier or other third party pipeline systems to deliver our products to market. the key systems utilized by cheyenne, el dorado, navajo, woods cross, and tulsa are rocky mountain, nustar energy, sfpp and plains, chevron, and magellan, respectively. all five refineries also utilize systems owned by hep. if these key pipelines or their associated tanks and terminals become inoperative or decrease the capacity available to us, we may not be able to sell our product, or we may be required to hold our product in inventory or supply products to our customers through an alternative pipeline or by rail or additional tanker trucks from the refinery, all of which could increase our costs and result in a decline in profitability. the proposed reversal of the seaway pipeline is expected to increase demand for crude oil from the northwestern united states and canada, which we expect to affect price advantages that have been in our favor and which may adversely affect our profit margins. on november 16, 2011, enbridge inc. and enterprise products partners l.p. announced that they had agreed with conocophillips to acquire the seaway crude pipeline system. the 670-mile seaway crude pipeline system includes the 500-mile, 30-inch diameter freeport, texas to cushing, oklahoma long-haul system. this pipeline currently transports crude oil to the cushing facility from the u.s. gulf coast; however, enbridge, inc. and enterprise products partners l.p. announced their intention to reverse the direction of crude oil flows on the seaway pipeline such that it will transport crude from cushing, oklahoma to the u.s. gulf coast. our profit margins depend primarily on the spread between the price of crude oil and the price of the refined product. we were generally able to purchase crude oil at a favorable price due to a bottleneck of crude oil at the cushing, oklahoma transport hub. this bottleneck prevented crude from the northwestern united states and canada from reaching many competing refineries. the reversal of the seaway crude pipeline is expected to alleviate this bottleneck, and therefore could eliminate the market dynamic that allowed us to enjoy favorable pricing. this may adversely affect our profit margins. the potential operation of new or expanded refined product transportation pipelines could impact the supply of refined products to our existing markets. the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the navajo refinery include longhorn, kinder morgan, plains, hep, and nustar energy. the longhorn pipeline is a common carrier pipeline that supplies the el paso market with refined products from refineries as distant as the texas gulf coast. the longhorn pipeline is a converted crude oil pipeline with an approximate capacity of 72,000 bpd of refined products. magellan purchased the longhorn pipeline out of bankruptcy in 2009. flying j formerly owned the longhorn pipeline prior to its bankruptcy in 2008. in addition to supplying arizona markets from el paso, kinder morgan also supplies arizona markets from the west coast. the plains pipeline currently supplies new mexico markets from el paso. in addition, nustar energy lp and hep own pipelines into the el paso and new mexico markets. -30- table of contents the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the woods cross refinery include chevron, pioneer, and yellowstone pipelines. the chevron system transports products from salt lake city to idaho and eastern washington. the pioneer pipeline transports products from wyoming and montana refineries into salt lake city. the yellowstone pipeline transports products from montana refineries into eastern washington. the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the tulsa and el dorado refineries include magellan, explorer, and kaneb pipelines. the explorer pipeline transports refined products from gulf coast refineries to tulsa where it interconnects with magellan prior to proceeding to the chicago area. the kaneb pipeline transports refined products from northern texas, oklahoma, and kansas refineries to markets in kansas, nebraska, iowa, north dakota, and south dakota. these markets are in close proximity to markets supplied by the magellan system. the refined product transportation pipelines that also supply the markets supplied by the cheyenne refinery include rocky mountain, magellan mountain, conoco, medicine bow, and nustar pipelines. the rocky mountain pipeline system which transports the cheyenne refinery products to denver also transports refined products from wyoming and further north to cheyenne and denver. the medicine bow pipeline delivers refined products from sinclair wyoming. the magellan mountain pipeline delivers refined products directly from kansas but those products may be supplied all the way from the gulf coast. the conoco and nustar pipelines bring products in from the texas panhandle. the expansion of any of these pipelines, the conversion of existing pipelines into refined products, or the construction of a new pipeline into our markets could negatively impact the supply of refined products in our markets and our profitability. we depend upon hep for a substantial portion of the crude supply and distribution network that serve our refineries and we own a significant equity interest in hep. we currently own a 42% interest in hep, including the 2% general partner interest. hep operates a system of crude oil and petroleum product pipelines, distribution terminals and refinery tankage in arizona, idaho, kansas, new mexico, oklahoma, texas, utah, washington and wyoming. hep generates revenues by charging tariffs for transporting petroleum products and crude oil through its pipelines, by leasing certain pipeline capacity to alon, by charging fees for terminalling refined products and other hydrocarbons and storing and providing other services at its terminals. hep serves our refineries in new mexico, utah, wyoming, kansas and oklahoma under several long-term pipeline and terminal, tankage and throughput agreements expiring in 2019 through 2025. furthermore, our financial statements include the consolidated results of hep. hep is subject to its own operating and regulatory risks, including, but not limited to: its reliance on its significant customers, including us; competition from other pipelines; environmental regulations affecting pipeline operations; operational hazards and risks; pipeline tariff regulations affecting the rates hep can charge; limitations on additional borrowings and other restrictions due to hep debt covenants; and other financial, operational and legal risks. the occurrence of any of these risks could directly or indirectly affect hep as well as our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as hep is a consolidated vie. additionally, these risks could affect hep ability to continue operations which could affect their ability to serve our supply and distribution network needs. for additional information about hep, see holly energy partners, l.p. under items 1 and 2, business and properties. -31- table of contents we are exposed to the credit risks, and certain other risks, of our key customers and vendors. we are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. we derive a significant portion of our revenues from contracts with key customers. if any of our key customers default on their obligations to us, our financial results could be adversely affected. furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. in addition, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide us with products or services could result in higher costs or interfere with our ability to successfully conduct our business. any substantial increase in the nonpayment and/or nonperformance by our customers or vendors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. terrorist attacks, and the threat of terrorist attacks or domestic vandalism, have resulted in increased costs to our business. continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may adversely impact our results of operations. the long-term impacts of terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred on september 11, 2001, and the threat of future terrorist attacks on the energy transportation industry in general, and on us in particular, are not known at this time. increased security measures taken by us as a precaution against possible terrorist attacks or vandalism have resulted in increased costs to our business. future terrorist attacks could lead to even stronger, more costly initiatives or regulatory requirements. uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the middle east or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of crude oil supplies and markets for refined products, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. in addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. any one of, or a combination of, these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks could make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital including our ability to repay or refinance debt. we may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers. the renewal or replacement of existing contracts with our customers at rates sufficient to maintain current revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors outside our control, including competition from other refiners and the demand for refined products in the markets that we serve. loss of, or reduction in, amounts purchased by our major customers could have an adverse effect on us to the extent that, because of market limitations or transportation constraints, we are not able to correspondingly increase sales to other purchasers. our petroleum business financial results are seasonal and generally lower in the first and fourth quarters of the year, which may cause volatility in the price of our common stock. demand for gasoline products is generally higher during the summer months than during the winter months due to seasonal increases in highway traffic and road construction work. as a result, our results of operations for the first and fourth calendar quarters are generally lower than for those for the second and third quarters. the effects of seasonal demand for gasoline are partially offset by seasonality in demand for diesel fuel, which in the southwest region of the united states is generally higher in winter months as east-west trucking traffic moves south to avoid winter conditions on northern routes. however, unseasonably cool weather in the summer months and/or unseasonably warm weather in the winter months in the markets in which we sell our petroleum products could have the effect of reducing demand for gasoline and diesel fuel which could result in lower prices and reduce operating margins. -32- table of contents we may be unable to pay future dividends. we will only be able to pay dividends from our available cash on hand, cash from operations or borrowings under our credit agreement. the declaration of future dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon many factors, including our results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, and restrictions in our debt agreements and legal requirements. we cannot assure you that any dividends will be paid or the frequency of such payments. ongoing maintenance of effective internal controls in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act could cause us to incur additional expenditures of time and financial resources. we regularly document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on our controls over financial reporting. if, in the future, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls and, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act. failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could cause us to incur substantial expenditures of management time and financial resources to identify and correct any such failure. additionally, the failure to comply with section 404 or the report by us of a material weakness may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may be adversely affected. a material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may face restricted access to the capital markets, and our stock price may decline. product liability claims and litigation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. product liability is a significant commercial risk. substantial damage awards have been made in certain jurisdictions against manufacturers and resellers based upon claims for injuries caused by the use of or exposure to various products. there can be no assurance that product liability claims against us would not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. failure of our products to meet required specifications could result in product liability claims from our shippers and customers arising from contaminated or off-specification commingled pipelines and storage tanks and/or defective quality fuels. if the market value of our inventory declines to an amount less than our lifo basis, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales, which would adversely affect our earnings. the nature of our business requires us to maintain substantial quantities of crude oil, refined petroleum product and blendstock inventories. because crude oil and refined petroleum products are commodities, we have no control over the changing market value of these inventories. because certain of our refining inventory is valued at the lower of cost or market value under the last-in, first-out ( lifo ) inventory valuation methodology, we would record a write-down of inventory and a non-cash charge to cost of sales if the market value of our inventory were to decline to an amount less than our lifo basis. a material write-down could affect our operating income and profitability. from time to time, our cash needs may exceed our internally generated cash flow, and our business could be materially and adversely affected if we are not able to obtain the necessary funds from financing activities. we have significant short-term cash needs to satisfy working capital requirements such as crude oil purchases which fluctuate with the pricing and sourcing of crude oil. we generally purchase crude oil for our refineries with cash generated from our operations. if the price of crude oil increases significantly, we may not have sufficient cash flow, available cash on hand or borrowing capacity, and may not be able to sufficiently increase borrowing capacity, under our existing credit facilities to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. our failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could -33- table of contents have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we also have significant long-term needs for cash, including those to support our expansion and upgrade plans, as well as for regulatory compliance. if credit markets tighten, it may become more difficult to obtain cash from third party sources. if we cannot generate cash flow or otherwise secure sufficient liquidity to support our short-term and long-term capital requirements, we may not be able to comply with regulatory deadlines or pursue our business strategies, in which case our operations may not perform as well as we currently expect, and we could be subject to regulatory action. changes in our credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, may affect our relationship with our suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and limit our ability to purchase enough crude oil to operate our refineries at desired capacity. an unfavorable credit profile, or a significant increase in the price of crude oil, could affect the way crude oil suppliers view our ability to make payments and induce them to shorten the payment terms of their invoices with us or require credit enhancement. due to the large dollar amounts and volume of our crude oil and other feedstock purchases, any imposition by our suppliers of more burdensome payment terms or credit enhancement requirements on us may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and our ability to make payments to our suppliers. this in turn could cause us to be unable to operate our refineries at desired capacity. a failure to operate our refineries at desired capacity could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow. our debt agreements contain operating and financial restrictions that might constrain our business and financing activities. the operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facilities and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. for example, our revolving credit facility imposes usual and customary requirements for this type of credit facility, including: (i) maintenance of certain levels of the fixed charge coverage ratio; (ii) limitations on liens, investments, indebtedness and dividends; (iii) a prohibition on changes in control and (iv) restrictions on engaging in mergers, consolidations and sales of assets, entering into certain lease obligations, and making certain investments or capital expenditures. if we fail to satisfy the covenants set forth in the credit facility or another event of default occurs under the facility, the maturity of the loan could be accelerated or we could be prohibited from borrowing for our future working capital needs and issuing letters of credit. we might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these immediate payments. should we desire to undertake a transaction that is prohibited by the covenants in our credit facilities, we will need to obtain consent under our credit facilities. such refinancing may not be possible or may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. in addition, our obligations under our credit facilities are secured by inventory, receivables and pledged cash assets. if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facilities when due, the lenders could seek to foreclose on the assets or we may be required to contribute additional capital to our subsidiaries. any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business may suffer due to a change in the composition of our board of directors, or if any of our key senior executives or other key employees discontinue employment with us. furthermore, a shortage of skilled labor or disruptions in our labor force may make it difficult for us to maintain labor productivity. our future performance depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management team and key technical personnel. we do not currently maintain key man life insurance, non-compete agreements, or employment agreements with respect to any member of our senior management team. the loss or unavailability to us of any member of our senior management team or a key technical employee could significantly harm us. we face competition for these professionals from our competitors, our customers and other companies operating in our industry. to the extent that the services of members of our senior management team and key technical personnel would be unavailable to us for any reason, we may be required to hire other personnel to manage and operate our company. we may not be able to locate or employ such qualified personnel on acceptable terms, or at all. furthermore, our operations require skilled and experienced laborers with proficiency in multiple tasks. a shortage of trained workers due to retirements or otherwise could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our operations. -34- table of contents as of december 31, 2011, approximately 33% of our employees were represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements with various expiration dates. we may not be able to renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements when they expire on satisfactory terms or at all. a failure to do so may increase our costs. in addition, our existing labor agreements may not prevent a strike or work stoppage at any of our facilities in the future, and any work stoppage could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. we may need to use current cash flow to fund our postretirement health care obligations, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position. we also have benefit obligations in connection with our unfunded postretirement health care plans that provide health care benefits as part of the voluntary early retirement program offered to eligible employees. as part of the early retirement program, we allow qualified retiring employees to continue coverage at a reduced cost under our group medical plans until normal retirement age. additionally, we maintain an unfunded postretirement medical plan whereby certain retirees between the ages of 62 and 65 can receive benefits paid by us. as of december 31, 2011, the total accumulated postretirement benefit obligation under our postretirement medical plans was $77.3 million. increased participation in this program and/or increasing medical costs may affect our ability to pay required health care benefits causing us to have to divert funds away from other areas of the business to pay their costs. we could be subject to damages based on claims brought against us by our customers or lose customers as a result of the failure of our products to meet certain quality specifications. a significant portion of our operating responsibility on refined product pipelines is to insure the quality and purity of the products loaded at our loading racks. if our quality control measures were to fail, off specification product could be sent out to public gasoline stations. this type of incident could result in liability claims regarding damages caused by the off specification fuel or could impact our ability to retain existing customers or to acquire new customers, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk see risk management under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. reconciliations to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles reconciliations of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, which we refer to as ebitda, is calculated as income from continuing operations plus (i) interest expense, net of interest income, (ii) income tax provision, and (iii) depreciation and amortization. ebitda is not a calculation provided for under gaap; however, the amounts included in the ebitda calculation are derived from amounts included in our consolidated financial statements. ebitda should not be considered as an alternative to net income or operating income as an indication of our operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. ebitda is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. ebitda is presented here because it is a widely used financial indicator used by investors and analysts to measure performance. ebitda is also used by our management for internal analysis and as a basis for financial covenants. set forth below is our calculation of ebitda from continuing operations. years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 (in thousands) income from continuing operations $ 1,059,704 $ 133,051 $ 36,343 subtract noncontrolling interest in income from continuing operations (36,307 ) (29,087 ) (21,134 ) add income tax provision 581,991 59,312 7,460 add interest expense 78,323 74,196 40,346 subtract interest income (1,284 ) (1,168 ) (5,045 ) add depreciation and amortization 159,707 117,529 98,751 ebitda from continuing operations $ 1,842,134 $ 353,833 $ 156,721 reconciliations of refinery operating information (non-gaap performance measures) to amounts reported under generally accepted accounting principles in financial statements. refinery gross margin and net operating margin are non-gaap performance measures that are used by our management and others to compare our refining performance to that of other companies in our industry. we believe these margin measures are helpful to investors in evaluating our refining performance on a relative and an absolute basis. refinery gross margin per barrel is the difference between average net sales price and average cost of products per barrel of produced refined products. net operating margin per barrel is the difference between refinery gross margin and refinery operating expenses per barrel of produced refined products. these two margins do not include the effect of depreciation and amortization. each of these component performance measures can be reconciled directly to our consolidated statements of income. other companies in our industry may not calculate these performance measures in the same manner. -61- table of contents refinery gross and net operating margins below are reconciliations to our consolidated statements of income for (i) net sales, cost of products and operating expenses, in each case averaged per produced barrel sold, and (ii) net operating margin and refinery gross margin. due to rounding of reported numbers, some amounts may not calculate exactly. reconciliations of refined product sales from produced products sold to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 118.82 $ 91.06 $ 74.06 times sales of produced refined products (bpd) 332,720 228,140 151,580 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 14,429,833 $ 7,582,666 $ 4,097,495 total refined product sales $ 14,429,833 $ 7,582,666 $ 4,097,495 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding ( 1 ) 350,843 130,866 106,893 total refined products sales 14,780,676 7,713,532 4,204,388 add direct sales of excess crude oil ( 2 ) 558,855 459,743 453,958 add other refining segment revenue ( 3 ) 52,899 113,725 131,475 total refining segment revenue 15,392,430 8,287,000 4,789,821 add hep segment sales and other revenues 213,566 182,114 146,561 add corporate and other revenues 1,247 415 (636 ) subtract consolidations and eliminations (167,715 ) (146,600 ) (101,478 ) sales and other revenues $ 15,439,528 $ 8,322,929 $ 4,834,268 reconciliation of average cost of products per produced barrel sold to total cost of products sold years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) average cost of products per produced barrel sold $ 98.18 $ 82.27 $ 66.85 times sales of produced refined products (bpd) 332,720 228,140 151,580 times number of days in period 365 365 365 cost of products for produced products sold $ 11,923,254 $ 6,850,713 $ 3,698,590 total cost of products for produced products sold $ 11,923,254 $ 6,850,713 $ 3,698,590 add refined product costs from purchased products sold and rounding ( 1 ) 351,788 131,668 114,566 total cost of refined products sold 12,275,042 6,982,381 3,813,156 add crude oil cost of direct sales of excess crude oil ( 2 ) 550,619 454,566 449,488 add other refining segment cost of products sold ( 4 ) 18,672 73,410 75,229 total refining segment cost of products sold 12,844,333 7,510,357 4,337,873 subtract consolidations and eliminations (164,255 ) (143,208 ) (99,865 ) cost of products sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 12,680,078 $ 7,367,149 $ 4,238,008 -62- table of contents reconciliation of average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold to total operating expenses years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel sold $ 5.36 $ 5.08 $ 5.24 times sales of produced refined products (bpd) 332,720 228,140 151,580 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refinery operating expenses for produced products sold $ 650,933 $ 423,017 $ 289,912 total refinery operating expenses per produced products sold $ 650,933 $ 423,017 $ 289,912 add other refining segment operating expenses and rounding ( 5 ) 35,659 26,573 23,408 total refining segment operating expenses 686,592 449,590 313,320 add hep segment operating expenses 62,202 52,947 44,003 add corporate and other costs 1,974 2,387 41 subtract consolidations and eliminations (2,687 ) (510 ) (509 ) operating expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) $ 748,081 $ 504,414 $ 356,855 reconciliation of net operating margin per barrel to refinery gross margin per barrel to total sales and other revenues years ended december 31, 2011 2010 2009 (dollars in thousands, except per barrel amounts) net operating margin per barrel $ 15.28 $ 3.71 $ 1.97 add average refinery operating expenses per produced barrel 5.36 5.08 5.24 refinery gross margin per barrel 20.64 8.79 7.21 add average cost of products per produced barrel sold 98.18 82.27 66.85 average sales price per produced barrel sold $ 118.82 $ 91.06 $ 74.06 times sales of produced refined products (bpd) 332,720 228,140 151,580 times number of days in period 365 365 365 refined product sales from produced products sold $ 14,429,833 $ 7,582,666 $ 4,097,495 total refined product sales from produced products sold $ 14,429,833 $ 7,582,666 $ 4,097,495 add refined product sales from purchased products and rounding ( 1 ) 350,843 130,866 106,893 total refined product sales 14,780,676 7,713,532 4,204,388 add direct sales of excess crude oil ( 2 ) 558,855 459,743 453,958 add other refining segment revenue ( 3 ) 52,899 113,725 131,475 total refining segment revenue 15,392,430 8,287,000 4,789,821 add hep segment sales and other revenues 213,566 182,114 146,561 add corporate and other revenues 1,247 415 (636 ) subtract consolidations and eliminations (167,715 ) (146,600 ) (101,478 ) sales and other revenues $ 15,439,528 $ 8,322,929 $ 4,834,268 (1) we purchase finished products when opportunities arise that provide a profit on the sale of such products or to meet delivery commitments. (2) we purchase crude oil that at times exceeds the supply needs of our refineries. quantities in excess of our needs are sold at market prices to purchasers of crude oil that are recorded on a gross basis with the sales price recorded as revenues and the corresponding acquisition cost as inventory and then upon sale as cost of products sold. additionally, we enter into buy/sell exchanges of crude oil with certain parties to facilitate the delivery of quantities to certain locations that are netted at carryover cost. (3) other refining segment revenue includes the incremental revenues associated with nk asphalt and miscellaneous revenue. (4) other refining segment cost of products sold includes the incremental cost of products for nk asphalt and miscellaneous costs. (5) other refining segment operating expenses include the marketing costs associated with our refining segment and the operating expenses of nk asphalt. -63- table of contents