risk factors we are providing the following cautionary statements which identify all known material risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results. we operate in the capital, commodities and commercial markets. the capital markets include asset managers, banks, exchanges, issuers and financial advisors; the commodities markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, metals, and agriculture; and the commercial markets include professionals and corporate executives within automotive, construction, aerospace and defense, and marketing / research information services. certain risk factors are applicable to individual markets while other risk factors are applicable company-wide. market risks introduction of new products, services or technologies could impact our profitability we operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and new ways to deliver our products and services. these investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. we could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment within which we operate. we rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. we believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our business could be subject to significant disruption and our operating results may be adversely impacted by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or unauthorized access to our systems. exposure to litigation could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations we are involved in legal actions and claims arising from our business practices, as discussed under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this form 10-k and in note 13 commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under item 8, consolidated financial statements and supplementary data , in this form 10-k, and face the risk that additional actions and claims will be filed in the future. due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any actions or claims that may be brought in the future, or the change in applicable legal standards could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. changes in the volume of securities issued and traded in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and volatility in the financial markets could have a material impact on our results of operations unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers' willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which s&amp;p ratings provides credit ratings. 11 table of contents unfavorable financial or economic conditions could also adversely impacts s&amp;p dj indices, which receives a portion of its revenue from fees based on derivatives trading volumes and index-based etf assets under management. increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the level of derivatives trading and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered. any weakness in the macroeconomic environment could constrain customer budgets across the markets we serve, potentially leading to a reduction in their employee headcount and a decrease in demand for our subscription-based products. increased domestic and foreign regulation may adversely impact our businesses our results could be adversely affected because of public statements or actions by market participants, government officials and others who may be advocates of increased regulation or regulatory scrutiny. the financial services industry is subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states and abroad. the businesses conducted by s&amp;p ratings are in certain cases regulated under the u.s. credit rating agency reform act of 2006, the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years, the u.s. congress, the sec and the european commission, through regulators including the international organization of securities commissions and the european securities and markets authority, as well as regulators in other countries in which s&amp;p ratings operates have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. we do not believe that the laws, regulations and rules that have been adopted as part of this process will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are being considered by local, national, foreign and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future, including provisions seeking to reduce regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings, rotation of credit rating agencies and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies. the impact on us of the adoption of any such laws, regulations or rules remains uncertain, but could increase the costs and legal risks relating to s&amp;p rating's rating activities. additional information regarding rating agencies is provided under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this form 10-k. our commodities business is subject to the potential for increasing regulatory review in the united states and abroad. in the fall of 2011, the g20 cannes final summit declaration called upon the international organization of securities commissions ("iosco"), international energy forum, international energy agency and the organization of petroleum exporting countries to prepare recommendations to improve the functioning and oversight of price reporting companies by mid-2012. in a meeting with representatives of iosco in january 2012, principals at iosco advised platts management that among the recommendations the regulatory group is considering is establishment of formal oversight of price reporting organizations and their processes, or a self-regulatory oversight regime. in addition, new rules that are expected to be adopted by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission in 2013 affecting transactions in oil derivatives may hinder platts in relation to its administration of the platts electronic window (ewindow) as a means of determining price assessments in oil. similar new rules and regulations in europe are currently under consideration, albeit on a slower time frame. on october 5, 2012, iosco issued its final report to the g-20, including principles for oil price reporting agencies, which sets out principles iosco states are intended to enhance the reliability of oil price assessments that are referenced in derivative contracts subject to regulation by iosco members. on january 9, 2013, iosco held a meeting with the price reporting organizations to discuss implementation of the principles for oil price reporting agencies. at the meeting, platts was able to obtain clarification from iosco on its expectations for voluntary implementation of the principles by platts and the other pros and, with that clarification, platts believes that the principles will not have a significant negative impact on its ongoing business operations. we do not believe that any new regulatory or self-regulatory oversight regime would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 12 table of contents operating risks a significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability our major expenses include employee compensation and capital investments. we offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require. we make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives. although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including print and digital. our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement. our operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. risk of doing business abroad as we continue to expand our operations overseas, we face the increased risks of doing business abroad, including inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, tariffs, nationalization, expropriation, limits on repatriation of funds, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and/or expected operating results. increased competition could result in a loss of market share or revenue the markets for credit ratings, financial research, investment and advisory services, and index-based products are competitive. s&amp;p ratings, s&amp;p capital iq and s&amp;p dj indices compete domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of its ratings, research and advisory services, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. while our businesses face competition from traditional content and analytics providers, we also face competition from non-traditional providers such as exchanges, asset managers, investment banks and technology-led companies that are adding content and analytics capabilities to their core businesses. in addition, in some of the countries in which s&amp;p ratings competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. consolidation of customers as well as staffing levels across our customer base could impact our available markets and revenue growth our businesses within s&amp;p capital iq and s&amp;p dj indices have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the financial services industry. the current challenging business environment and the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions in the financial services industry can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. changes to our financial processing systems and the transition of certain of our support functions to selected outsource providers may adversely impact our business we are in the process of changing certain of our financial processing systems to an enterprise-wide systems solution. there can be no certainty that these initiatives will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to implement these changes successfully may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and could lead to business disruption. in addition, we have and plan to outsource certain support functions to third-party service providers to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively, we 13 table of contents may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and, depending on the function involved, we may experience business disruption, processing inefficiencies, or harm employee morale. risks associated with the sale of mcgraw-hill education the sale will result in two separate independent companies each of which is a smaller, less diversified company than we currently were with a narrower business focus than we previously had. in addition, diversification of revenues, costs, and cash flows may diminish. as such, it is possible that the results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements of the two separate businesses may be subject to increased volatility. completion of the sale requires significant time, effort and expense. any delays in the anticipated completion of the transaction may increase the expenses which we incur to complete the transaction. this transaction requires us to retain and develop our senior management and a highly skilled workforce. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop current leadership positions or to retain a skilled workforce could affect our institutional knowledge base and our competitive advantage. in addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees and higher employee turnover.risk factors we are providing the following cautionary statements which identify all known material risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results. we operate in the capital, commodities and commercial markets. the capital markets include asset managers, banks, exchanges, issuers and financial advisors; the commodities markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, metals, and agriculture; and the commercial markets include professionals and corporate executives within automotive, construction, aerospace and defense, and marketing / research information services. certain risk factors are applicable to individual markets while other risk factors are applicable company-wide. market risks introduction of new products, services or technologies could impact our profitability we operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and new ways to deliver our products and services. these investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. we could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment within which we operate. we rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. we believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our business could be subject to significant disruption and our operating results may be adversely impacted by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or unauthorized access to our systems. exposure to litigation could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations we are involved in legal actions and claims arising from our business practices, as discussed under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this form 10-k and in note 13 commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under item 8, consolidated financial statements and supplementary data , in this form 10-k, and face the risk that additional actions and claims will be filed in the future. due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any actions or claims that may be brought in the future, or the change in applicable legal standards could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. changes in the volume of securities issued and traded in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and volatility in the financial markets could have a material impact on our results of operations unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers' willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which s&amp;p ratings provides credit ratings. 11 table of contents unfavorable financial or economic conditions could also adversely impacts s&amp;p dj indices, which receives a portion of its revenue from fees based on derivatives trading volumes and index-based etf assets under management. increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the level of derivatives trading and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered. any weakness in the macroeconomic environment could constrain customer budgets across the markets we serve, potentially leading to a reduction in their employee headcount and a decrease in demand for our subscription-based products. increased domestic and foreign regulation may adversely impact our businesses our results could be adversely affected because of public statements or actions by market participants, government officials and others who may be advocates of increased regulation or regulatory scrutiny. the financial services industry is subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states and abroad. the businesses conducted by s&amp;p ratings are in certain cases regulated under the u.s. credit rating agency reform act of 2006, the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years, the u.s. congress, the sec and the european commission, through regulators including the international organization of securities commissions and the european securities and markets authority, as well as regulators in other countries in which s&amp;p ratings operates have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. we do not believe that the laws, regulations and rules that have been adopted as part of this process will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are being considered by local, national, foreign and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future, including provisions seeking to reduce regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings, rotation of credit rating agencies and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies. the impact on us of the adoption of any such laws, regulations or rules remains uncertain, but could increase the costs and legal risks relating to s&amp;p rating's rating activities. additional information regarding rating agencies is provided under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this form 10-k. our commodities business is subject to the potential for increasing regulatory review in the united states and abroad. in the fall of 2011, the g20 cannes final summit declaration called upon the international organization of securities commissions ("iosco"), international energy forum, international energy agency and the organization of petroleum exporting countries to prepare recommendations to improve the functioning and oversight of price reporting companies by mid-2012. in a meeting with representatives of iosco in january 2012, principals at iosco advised platts management that among the recommendations the regulatory group is considering is establishment of formal oversight of price reporting organizations and their processes, or a self-regulatory oversight regime. in addition, new rules that are expected to be adopted by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission in 2013 affecting transactions in oil derivatives may hinder platts in relation to its administration of the platts electronic window (ewindow) as a means of determining price assessments in oil. similar new rules and regulations in europe are currently under consideration, albeit on a slower time frame. on october 5, 2012, iosco issued its final report to the g-20, including principles for oil price reporting agencies, which sets out principles iosco states are intended to enhance the reliability of oil price assessments that are referenced in derivative contracts subject to regulation by iosco members. on january 9, 2013, iosco held a meeting with the price reporting organizations to discuss implementation of the principles for oil price reporting agencies. at the meeting, platts was able to obtain clarification from iosco on its expectations for voluntary implementation of the principles by platts and the other pros and, with that clarification, platts believes that the principles will not have a significant negative impact on its ongoing business operations. we do not believe that any new regulatory or self-regulatory oversight regime would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 12 table of contents operating risks a significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability our major expenses include employee compensation and capital investments. we offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require. we make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives. although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including print and digital. our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement. our operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. risk of doing business abroad as we continue to expand our operations overseas, we face the increased risks of doing business abroad, including inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, tariffs, nationalization, expropriation, limits on repatriation of funds, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and/or expected operating results. increased competition could result in a loss of market share or revenue the markets for credit ratings, financial research, investment and advisory services, and index-based products are competitive. s&amp;p ratings, s&amp;p capital iq and s&amp;p dj indices compete domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of its ratings, research and advisory services, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. while our businesses face competition from traditional content and analytics providers, we also face competition from non-traditional providers such as exchanges, asset managers, investment banks and technology-led companies that are adding content and analytics capabilities to their core businesses. in addition, in some of the countries in which s&amp;p ratings competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. consolidation of customers as well as staffing levels across our customer base could impact our available markets and revenue growth our businesses within s&amp;p capital iq and s&amp;p dj indices have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the financial services industry. the current challenging business environment and the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions in the financial services industry can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. changes to our financial processing systems and the transition of certain of our support functions to selected outsource providers may adversely impact our business we are in the process of changing certain of our financial processing systems to an enterprise-wide systems solution. there can be no certainty that these initiatives will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to implement these changes successfully may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and could lead to business disruption. in addition, we have and plan to outsource certain support functions to third-party service providers to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively, we 13 table of contents may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and, depending on the function involved, we may experience business disruption, processing inefficiencies, or harm employee morale. risks associated with the sale of mcgraw-hill education the sale will result in two separate independent companies each of which is a smaller, less diversified company than we currently were with a narrower business focus than we previously had. in addition, diversification of revenues, costs, and cash flows may diminish. as such, it is possible that the results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements of the two separate businesses may be subject to increased volatility. completion of the sale requires significant time, effort and expense. any delays in the anticipated completion of the transaction may increase the expenses which we incur to complete the transaction. this transaction requires us to retain and develop our senior management and a highly skilled workforce. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop current leadership positions or to retain a skilled workforce could affect our institutional knowledge base and our competitive advantage. in addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees and higher employee turnover.risk factors we are providing the following cautionary statements which identify all known material risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results. we operate in the capital, commodities and commercial markets. the capital markets include asset managers, banks, exchanges, issuers and financial advisors; the commodities markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, metals, and agriculture; and the commercial markets include professionals and corporate executives within construction and marketing / research information services. certain risk factors are applicable to individual markets while other risk factors are applicable company-wide. market risks introduction of new products, services or technologies could impact our profitability we operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and new ways to deliver our products and services. these investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. we could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment within which we operate. we rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. we believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our business could be subject to significant disruption and our operating results may be adversely impacted by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or unauthorized access to our systems. exposure to litigation could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations we are involved in legal actions and claims arising from our business practices, as discussed under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this form 10-k and in note 12 commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under item 8, consolidated financial statements and supplementary data , in this form 10-k, and face the risk that additional actions and claims will be filed in the future. due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any actions or claims that may be brought in the future, or the change in applicable legal standards could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. changes in the volume of securities issued and traded in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and volatility in the financial markets could have a material impact on our results of operations unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers' willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which s&amp;p ratings provides credit ratings. unfavorable financial or economic conditions could also adversely impact s&amp;p dj indices, which receives a portion of its revenue from fees based on derivatives trading volumes and index-based etf assets under management. increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the level of derivatives trading and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered. any weakness in the macroeconomic environment could constrain customer budgets across the markets we serve, potentially leading to a reduction in their employee headcount and a decrease in demand for our subscription-based products. increased domestic and foreign regulation may adversely impact our businesses our results could be adversely affected because of public statements or actions by market participants, government officials and others who may be advocates of increased regulation or regulatory scrutiny. the financial services industry is subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states and abroad. the businesses conducted by s&amp;p ratings are in certain cases regulated under the u.s. credit rating agency reform act of 9 table of contents 2006, the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years, the u.s. congress, the sec and the european commission, through regulators including the international organization of securities commissions and the european securities and markets authority, as well as regulators in other countries in which s&amp;p ratings operates have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. we do not believe that the laws, regulations and rules that have been adopted as part of this process will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are being considered by local, national, foreign and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future, including provisions seeking to reduce regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings, rotation of credit rating agencies and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies. the impact on us of the adoption of any such laws, regulations or rules remains uncertain, but could increase the costs and legal risks relating to s&amp;p rating's rating activities. additional information regarding rating agencies is provided under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this form 10-k. our commodities business is subject to the potential for increasing regulatory review in the united states and abroad. in the fall of 2011, the g20 cannes final summit declaration called upon the international organization of securities commissions ("iosco"), international energy forum, international energy agency and the organization of petroleum exporting countries to prepare recommendations to improve the functioning and oversight of price reporting companies by mid-2012. in a meeting with representatives of iosco in january 2012, principals at iosco advised platts management that among the recommendations the regulatory group is considering is establishment of formal oversight of price reporting organizations and their processes, or a self-regulatory oversight regime. in addition, new rules adopted by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission in 2013 affecting transactions in oil derivatives may hinder platts in relation to its administration of the platts electronic window (ewindow) as a means of determining price assessments in oil. similar new rules and regulations in europe are currently under consideration, albeit on a slower time frame. on october 5, 2012, iosco issued its final report to the g-20, including principles for oil price reporting agencies, which sets out principles iosco states are intended to enhance the reliability of oil price assessments that are referenced in derivative contracts subject to regulation by iosco members. platts undertook steps to align its operations with the principles including an assurance review by an external auditor and after doing so believes that the principles will not have a significant negative impact on its ongoing business operations. we do not believe that any new regulatory or self-regulatory oversight regime would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. the s&amp;p dj indices business is subject to the potential for increasing regulatory review in the united states and abroad. in july 2013, iosco issued its principles for financial benchmarks, which is a set of principles intended to promote the reliability of benchmark determinations, and address governance, benchmark quality and accountability mechanisms, including with regard to the indices published by s&amp;p dj indices. s&amp;p dj indices is currently undertaking steps to ensure that its operations are aligned with the iosco financial benchmark principles. we do not believe that any new regulatory or self-regulatory oversight regime would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. operating risks a significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability our major expenses include employee compensation and capital investments. we offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including 10 table of contents those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require. we make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives. although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including print and digital. our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement. our operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. risk of doing business abroad as we continue to expand our operations overseas, we face the increased risks of doing business abroad, including inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, tariffs, nationalization, expropriation, limits on repatriation of funds, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and/or expected operating results. increased competition could result in a loss of market share or revenue the markets for credit ratings, financial research, investment and advisory services, and index-based products are competitive. s&amp;p ratings, s&amp;p capital iq and s&amp;p dj indices compete domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of its ratings, research and advisory services, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. while our businesses face competition from traditional content and analytics providers, we also face competition from non-traditional providers such as exchanges, asset managers, investment banks and technology-led companies that are adding content and analytics capabilities to their core businesses. in addition, in some of the countries in which s&amp;p ratings competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. consolidation of customers as well as staffing levels across our customer base could impact our available markets and revenue growth our businesses within s&amp;p capital iq and s&amp;p dj indices have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the financial services industry. the current challenging business environment and the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions in the financial services industry can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. changes to our financial processing systems and the transition of certain of our support functions to selected outsource providers may adversely impact our business we are in the process of changing certain of our financial processing systems to an enterprise-wide systems solution. there can be no certainty that these initiatives will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to implement these changes successfully may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and could lead to business disruption. in addition, we have outsourced certain support functions to third-party service providers to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers to which we have outsourced these functions to do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and, depending on the function involved, we may experience business disruption, processing inefficiencies, or harm employee morale. 11 table of contentsrisk factors we are providing the following cautionary statements which identify all known material risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results. we operate in the capital, commodities and commercial markets. the capital markets include asset managers, banks, exchanges, issuers and financial advisors; the commodities markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, metals, and agriculture; and the commercial markets include professionals and corporate executives within marketing / research information services. certain risk factors are applicable to certain of our individual segments while other risk factors are applicable company-wide. exposure to litigation and government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in the normal course of business, both in the united states and abroad, we and our subsidiaries are defendants in numerous legal proceedings and are often the subject of government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries, as discussed under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this annual report on form 10-k and in note 12 - commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under item 8, consolidated financial statements and supplementary data , in this annual report on form 10-k, and we face the risk that additional proceedings, investigations and inquiries will arise in the future. many of these proceedings, investigations and inquiries relate to the ratings activity of s&amp;p ratings brought by issuers and alleged purchasers of rated securities. in addition, various government and self-regulatory agencies frequently make inquiries and conduct investigations into our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including those related to ratings activities and antitrust matters. any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties or activity restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in view of the uncertainty inherent in litigation and government and regulatory enforcement matters, we cannot predict the eventual outcome of the matters we are currently facing or the timing of their resolution, or in most cases reasonably estimate what the eventual judgments, damages, fines, penalties or impact of activity restrictions may be. as a result, we cannot provide assurance that the outcome of the matters we are currently facing or that we may face in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as litigation or the process to resolve pending matters progresses, as the case may be, we continuously review the latest information available and assess our ability to predict the outcome of such matters and the effects, if any, on our consolidated financial condition, cash flows, business and competitive position, which may require that we record liabilities in the consolidated financial statements in future periods. legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues. risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the united states. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks 10 table of contents are often difficult to assess or quantify and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in the volume of securities issued and traded in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and volatility in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the united states and world financial markets. therefore, since a significant component of our credit-rating based revenue is transaction-based, and is essentially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets, unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers' willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuances for which s&amp;p ratings provides credit ratings. increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the level of derivatives trading and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. any weakness in the macroeconomic environment could constrain customer budgets across the markets we serve, potentially leading to a reduction in their employee headcount and a decrease in demand for our subscription-based products. increasing regulation of our s&amp;p ratings business in the united states and abroad can increase our costs of doing business and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is highly regulated, rapidly evolving and subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states and abroad. the businesses conducted by s&amp;p ratings are in certain cases regulated under the credit rating agency reform act of 2006 (the reform act ), the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ), the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ), and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years, the u.s. congress, the international organization of securities commissions ("iosco"), the sec and the european commission, including through the european securities market authority ("esma"), as well as regulators in other countries in which s&amp;p ratings operates, have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are being considered by local, national, foreign and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future, including provisions seeking to reduce regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings, rotation of credit rating agencies and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies. these laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which we may be unable to pass through to customers. in addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. we may be required to incur significant expenses in order to ensure compliance and mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be uncertainty over and exposure to liability. it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on our business and our customers' businesses, and they may affect s&amp;p ratings' communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which s&amp;p ratings' ratings are developed, affect the manner in which s&amp;p ratings or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business. each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on our operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. 11 table of contents additional information regarding rating agencies is provided under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this annual report on form 10-k. our s&amp;p dj indices and c&amp;c businesses are subject to the potential for increasing regulatory review in the united states and abroad, which can increase our costs of doing business and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of the financial services industry. on october 5, 2012, iosco issued its principles for oil price reporting agencies ("pra principles"), which iosco states are intended to enhance the reliability of oil price assessments that are referenced in derivative contracts subject to regulation by iosco members. platts has taken steps to align its operations with the pra principles and, as recommended by iosco in its final report on the pra principles, is in the process of completing its alignment to the pra principles for other commodities for which it publishes benchmarks. the cost of compliance with the pra principles as well as obtaining annual third-party reviews of its adherence to the pra principles will increase platts' cost of doing business. in july 2013, iosco issued its principles for financial benchmarks ("financial benchmark principles"), which are intended to promote the reliability of benchmark determinations, and address governance, benchmark quality and accountability mechanisms, including with regard to the indices published by s&amp;p dj indices. s&amp;p dj indices has taken steps to align its operations with the financial benchmark principles. benchmark regulation is continuing to be considered in the european union, and at the same time the united kingdom is also reviewing its domestic framework for the supervision of benchmark administrators; as a result of these measures, as well as measures that could be taken in other jurisdictions outside of europe, s&amp;p dj indices and platts could, in due course, be required to obtain registration or authorization in connection with their benchmark and price assessment activities in europe and elsewhere. the european union has recently finalized a package of legislative measures known as mifid ii ("mifid ii"), which revise and update the existing e.u. markets in financial instruments directive framework. mifid ii will apply in full in all e.u. member states from january 3, 2017. mifid ii includes provisions that, among other things: (i) impose new conditions and requirements on the licensing of benchmarks and provide for non-discriminatory access to exchanges and clearing houses; (ii) modify the categorization and treatment of certain classes of derivatives; (iii) expand the categories of trading venue that are subject to regulation; and (iv) provide for the mandatory trading of certain derivatives on exchanges (complementing the mandatory derivative clearing requirements in the e.u. market infrastructure regulation of 2011). although the mifid ii package is framework legislation (meaning that much of the detail of the rules will be set out in subordinate measures to be agreed upon in the period before 2017), it is possible that the introduction of these laws and rules could affect s&amp;p dj indices' and platts' abilities both to administer and license their indices and price assessments, respectively. changes to regulations in the united states and abroad may impact our s&amp;p capital iq business by increasing the costs of doing business globally, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. s&amp;p capital iq operates regulated businesses in the united states, the united kingdom and certain other countries. these businesses and other s&amp;p capital iq businesses may increasingly become subject to new or more stringent regulations that will increase the cost of doing business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. mifid ii and the market abuse regulation ( mar ) likely will impose additional regulatory burdens on mcgraw hill financial research europe limited ("mhfre") activities in the european union, although the exact severity and cost are not yet known. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. some of our products support the investment processes of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts. 12 table of contents any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased competition could result in a loss of market share or revenue. the markets for credit ratings, financial research, investment and advisory services, index-based products, and commodities price assessments and related news and information about the commodities markets are intensely competitive. s&amp;p ratings, s&amp;p capital iq, s&amp;p dj indices and c&amp;c compete domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of its ratings, research and advisory services, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. while our businesses face competition from traditional content and analytics providers, we also face competition from non-traditional providers such as exchanges, asset managers, investment banks and technology-led companies that are adding content and analytics capabilities to their core businesses. in addition, in some of the countries in which s&amp;p ratings competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. sustained downward pressure on oil and other commodities prices and trading activity in those markets could have a material adverse effect on the rate of growth of platts' revenue, including subscription and licensing fees. introduction of new products, services or technologies could impact our profitability. we operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and new ways to deliver our products and services. these investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. we could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment in which we operate. we rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. we believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our business could be subject to significant disruption and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or unauthorized access to our systems. a significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. our major expenses include employee compensation and capital investments. we offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require. we make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives and we cannot provide assurances that such investments will result in increased revenues. although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. consolidation of customers as well as staffing levels across our customer base could impact our available markets and revenue growth. our businesses have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the financial services industry. the current challenging business environment and the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions in 13 table of contents the financial services industry can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. customers within the financial services and commodities industries that strive to reduce their operating costs may seek to reduce their spending on our products and services. if a large number of smaller customers or a critical number of larger customers reduce their spending with us, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. alternatively, customers may use other strategies to reduce their overall spending on financial and commodity market products and services by consolidating their spending with fewer vendors, including by selecting other vendors with lower-cost offerings, or by self-sourcing their need for financial and commodity market products and services. if customers elect to consolidate their spending on financial and commodity market products and services with other vendors and not us, if we lose business to lower priced competitors, or if customers elect to self-source their product and service needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. a material portion of our revenues in our s&amp;p dj indices business is concentrated in some of our largest customers, who have significant assets under management in index funds and exchange-traded funds. a loss of a substantial portion of revenue from our largest customers could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. some of our products are dependent upon (and of little value without) updates from our data suppliers and most of our information and data products are dependent upon (and of little value without) continuing access to historical and current data. we utilize certain data provided by third-party data sources in a variety of ways, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. if the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice. termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider's information could decrease the available information for us to use (and offer our clients) and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in the legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may materially and adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, and publish data and may impact our financial results. certain types of information we collect, compile, use, and publish, including offerings in our c&amp;c business, are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. in addition, there is increasing concern among certain privacy advocates and government regulators regarding marketing and privacy matters, particularly as they relate to individual privacy interests. these concerns may result in new or amended laws and regulations. future laws and regulations with respect to the collection, compilation, use, and publication of information and consumer privacy could result in limitations on our operations, increased compliance or litigation expense, adverse publicity, or loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our customers' needs. our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position. our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including print and digital. our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. 14 table of contents we face legal, economic and regulatory risks of operating in foreign jurisdictions. as we continue to expand our operations overseas, we face the increased risks of doing business abroad, including: inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, restrictions on the ability to convert local currency into u.s. dollars, differing accounting principles and standards, potentially adverse tax consequences, the costs of repatriating cash held by entities outside the united states, differing legal or civil liability, compliance and regulatory standards, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, tariffs, other trade barriers, nationalization, expropriation, limits on repatriation of funds, the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions, competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, we are subject to complex u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. although we have implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes to our financial processing systems and the transition of certain of our support functions to selected outsource providers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are in the process of changing certain of our financial processing systems to an enterprise-wide systems solution. there can be no certainty that these initiatives will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to implement these changes successfully may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently and could lead to business disruption. in addition, we have outsourced certain support functions to third-party service providers to leverage leading specialized capabilities and achieve cost efficiencies. if the service providers to which we have outsourced these functions to do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and, depending on the function involved, we may experience business disruption, processing inefficiencies, or harm employee morale. 15 table of contents we rely heavily on network systems and the internet and any failures or disruptions may adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. many of our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process transactions rapidly and deliver substantial quantities of data on computer-based networks. our customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems, our websites and the internet. our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may be impaired due to infrastructure or network failures, malicious or defective software, human error, natural disasters, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. delays in our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may harm our reputation and result in the loss of customers. in addition, a number of our customers entrust us with storing and securing their data and information on our servers. although we have disaster recovery plans that include backup facilities for our primary data centers, our systems are not always fully redundant, and our disaster planning may not always be sufficient or effective. as such, these disruptions may affect our ability to store, handle and secure such data and information. our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located, including new york city, the location of our headquarters, and major cities worldwide in which we have offices. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise. our efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of our major operating systems may not be successful. we rely on third-party providers to provide certain essential services. while we believe that such providers are reliable, we have limited control over the performance of such providers. to the extent any of our third-party providers ceases to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or fail to adequately expand its services to meet our needs and the needs of our customers, we could experience lower revenues and higher costs. we also do not have fully redundant systems for most of our smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and our disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of our locations or systems and our personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons' ability to service and interact with our clients and customers may suffer. we cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from our failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. a disruption to our operations or infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive and other types of information in our computer systems and networks and those of our third party vendors. the cyber risks we face range from cyber-attacks common to most industries, to more advanced threats that target us because of our prominence in the global marketplace, or due to our ratings of sovereign debt. breaches of our or our vendors' technology and systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, computer viruses or malware, employee error, malfeasance, physical breaches or other actions, may cause material interruptions or malfunctions in our or such vendors' web sites, applications or data processing, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information regarding us or our business or customers. 16 table of contents measures that we take to avoid or mitigate material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become obsolete. any material incidents could cause us to experience reputational harm, loss of customers, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results. we have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen our business and grow our company. such transactions present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect our ability to complete such transactions. if we are unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. for instance, the process of integration may require more resources than anticipated, we may assume unintended liabilities, there may be unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures, we may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business and such transactions may divert management's focus from other business operations. the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. as a result, the failure of acquisitions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 table of contentsrisk factors we are providing the following cautionary statements which identify all known material risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results. we operate in the capital, commodities and commercial markets. the capital markets include asset managers, investment banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, exchanges, and issuers; the commodities markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, metals, petrochemicals and agriculture; and the commercial markets include professionals and corporate executives within automotive, financial services, insurance and marketing / research information services. certain risk factors are applicable to certain of our individual segments while other risk factors are applicable company-wide. exposure to litigation and government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in the normal course of business, both in the united states and abroad, we and our subsidiaries are defendants in numerous legal proceedings and are often the subject of government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries, as discussed under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this annual report on form 10-k and in note 12 - commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under item 8, consolidated financial statements and supplementary data , in this annual report on form 10-k, and we face the risk that additional proceedings, investigations and inquiries will arise in the future. many of these proceedings, investigations and inquiries relate to the ratings activity of s&amp;p ratings brought by issuers and alleged purchasers of rated securities. in addition, various government and self-regulatory agencies frequently make inquiries and conduct investigations into our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including those related to ratings activities and antitrust matters. any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties or activity restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in view of the uncertainty inherent in litigation and government and regulatory enforcement matters, we cannot predict the eventual outcome of the matters we are currently facing or the timing of their resolution, or in most cases reasonably estimate what the eventual judgments, damages, fines, penalties or impact of activity restrictions may be. as a result, we cannot provide assurance that the outcome of the matters we are currently facing or that we may face in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as litigation or the process to resolve pending matters progresses, as the case may be, we continuously review the latest information available and assess our ability to predict the outcome of such matters and the effects, if any, on our consolidated financial condition, cash flows, business and competitive position, which may require that we record liabilities in the consolidated financial statements in future periods. 10 table of contents legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues. risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the united states. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations against the company in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results. we have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen our business and grow our company. such transactions, including our recent acquisition of snl financial lc, present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect our ability to complete such transactions. if we are unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. for instance, the process of integration may require more resources than anticipated, we may assume unintended liabilities, there may be unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures, we may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business and such transactions may divert management's focus from other business operations. the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. for instance, although we have identified approximately $100 million in synergies expected to be realized by 2019 largely from operational efficiencies and our ability to accelerate snl financial's international growth through its global footprint, there is no guarantee that we will be able to achieve any or all of these synergies. as a result, the failure of acquisitions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in the volume of securities issued and traded in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and volatility in the financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the united states and world financial markets. therefore, since a significant component of our credit-rating based revenue is transaction-based, and is essentially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets, unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers' willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuances for which s&amp;p ratings provides credit ratings. increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the level of derivatives trading and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. any weakness in the macroeconomic environment could constrain customer budgets across the markets we serve, potentially leading to a reduction in their employee headcount and a decrease in demand for our subscription-based 11 table of contents products. increasing regulation of our s&amp;p ratings business in the united states, europe and elsewhere can increase our costs of doing business and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is highly regulated, rapidly evolving and subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states, europe and elsewhere. the businesses conducted by s&amp;p ratings are in certain cases regulated under the credit rating agency reform act of 2006 (the reform act ), the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ), the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ), and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years, the u.s. congress, the international organization of securities commissions ("iosco"), the sec and the european commission, including through the european securities market authority ("esma"), as well as regulators in other countries in which s&amp;p ratings operates, have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are being considered by local, national and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future, including provisions seeking to reduce regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings, rotation of credit rating agencies and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies. these laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which we may be unable to pass through to customers. in addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. we may be required to incur significant expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations and to mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be uncertainty over and exposure to liability. it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on our business and our customers' businesses, and they may affect s&amp;p ratings' communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which s&amp;p ratings' ratings are developed, affect the manner in which s&amp;p ratings or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business. each of these developments increase the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on our operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. additional information regarding rating agencies is provided under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this annual report on form 10-k. our s&amp;p dj indices and c&amp;c businesses are subject to the potential for increasing regulatory review in the united states, europe and elsewhere, which can increase our costs of doing business and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations, foreign jurisdictions, principally in europe, have taken measures to increase regulation of the financial services and commodities industries. in october of 2012, iosco issued its principles for oil price reporting agencies ("pra principles"), which iosco states are intended to enhance the reliability of oil price assessments that are referenced in derivative contracts subject to regulation by iosco members. platts has taken steps to align its operations with the pra principles and, as recommended by iosco in its final report on the pra principles, has aligned to the pra principles for other commodities for which it publishes benchmarks. in july of 2013, iosco issued its principles for financial benchmarks ("financial benchmark principles"), which are intended to promote the reliability of benchmark determinations, and address governance, benchmark quality and accountability mechanisms, including with regard to the indices published by s&amp;p dj indices. s&amp;p dj indices has taken steps to align its governance regime and operations with the financial benchmark principles and engaged an independent auditor to perform a reasonable assurance review of such alignment. the financial benchmarks industry is subject to the new pending benchmark regulation in the european union (the e.u. benchmark regulation ) as well as potential increased regulation in other jurisdictions. the proposed e.u. benchmark regulation has been released for final approval and is expected to be published later this year. the e.u. benchmark 12 table of contents regulation will likely require s&amp;p dj indices and platts in due course to obtain registration or authorization in connection with its benchmark activities in europe. this legislation will likely cause additional operating obligations but they are not expected to be material at this time and until the regulation is finalized the exact impact is not certain. the european union has recently finalized a package of legislative measures known as mifid ii ("mifid ii"), which revise and update the existing e.u. markets in financial instruments directive framework. mifid ii will apply in full in all e.u. member states from january 3, 2017. mifid ii includes provisions that, among other things: (i) impose new conditions and requirements on the licensing of benchmarks and provide for non-discriminatory access to exchanges and clearing houses; (ii) modify the categorization and treatment of certain classes of derivatives; (iii) expand the categories of trading venue that are subject to regulation; and (iv) provide for the mandatory trading of certain derivatives on exchanges (complementing the mandatory derivative clearing requirements in the e.u. market infrastructure regulation of 2011). although the mifid ii package is framework legislation (meaning that much of the detail of the rules will be set out in subordinate measures to be agreed upon in the period before 2017), it is possible that the introduction of these laws and rules could affect s&amp;p dj indices' and platts' abilities both to administer and license their indices and price assessments, respectively. changes to regulations in the united states, europe and elsewhere may impact our s&amp;p capital iq and snl business by increasing the costs of doing business globally, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. s&amp;p capital iq and snl operates regulated investment advisory businesses in the united states, the european union and certain other countries. these and other s&amp;p capital iq and snl businesses may increasingly become subject to new or more stringent regulations that will increase the cost of doing business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. mifid ii and the market abuse regulation ( mar ) may impose additional regulatory burdens on s&amp;p capital iq and snl's activities in the european union, although the exact severity and cost are not yet known. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. some of our products support the investment processes of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased competition could result in a loss of market share or revenue. the markets for credit ratings, financial research, investment and advisory services, index-based products, and commodities price assessments and related news and information about the commodities markets are intensely competitive. s&amp;p ratings, s&amp;p capital iq and snl, s&amp;p dj indices and c&amp;c compete domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of its ratings, research and advisory services, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. while our businesses face competition from traditional content and analytics providers, we also face competition from non-traditional providers such as exchanges, asset managers, investment banks and technology-led companies that are adding content and analytics capabilities to their core businesses. in addition, in some of the countries in which s&amp;p ratings competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. sustained downward pressure on oil and other commodities prices and trading activity in those markets could have a material adverse effect on the rate of growth of platts' revenue, including subscription and licensing fees. 13 table of contents introduction of new products, services or technologies could impact our profitability. we operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and new ways to deliver our products and services. these investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. we could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment in which we operate. we rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. we believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our business could be subject to significant disruption and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or unauthorized access to our systems. a significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. our major expenditures include employee compensation and capital investments. we offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require. we make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives and we cannot provide assurances that such investments will result in increased revenues. although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. consolidation of customers as well as staffing levels across our customer base could impact our available markets and revenue growth. our businesses have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the financial services and commodities industries. the current challenging business environment and the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions in the financial services and commodities industries can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. customers within the financial services and commodities industries that strive to reduce their operating costs may seek to reduce their spending on our products and services. if a large number of smaller customers or a critical number of larger customers reduce their spending with us, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. alternatively, customers may use other strategies to reduce their overall spending on financial and commodity market products and services by consolidating their spending with fewer vendors, including by selecting other vendors with lower-cost offerings, or by self-sourcing their need for financial and commodity market products and services. if customers elect to consolidate their spending on financial and commodity market products and services with other vendors and not us, if we lose business to lower priced competitors, or if customers elect to self-source their product and service needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. a material portion of our revenues in our s&amp;p dj indices business is concentrated in some of our largest customers, who have significant assets under management in index funds and exchange-traded funds. a loss of a substantial portion of revenue from our largest customers could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 14 table of contents if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. some of our products are dependent upon (and of little value without) updates from our data suppliers and most of our information and data products are dependent upon (and of little value without) continuing access to historical and current data. we utilize certain data provided by third-party data sources in a variety of ways, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. if the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice. termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider's information could decrease the available information for us to use (and offer our clients) and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in the legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may materially and adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, and publish data and may impact our financial results. certain types of information we collect, compile, use, and publish, including offerings in our c&amp;c business, are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. in addition, there is increasing concern among certain privacy advocates and government regulators regarding marketing and privacy matters, particularly as they relate to individual privacy interests. these concerns may result in new or amended laws and regulations. future laws and regulations with respect to the collection, compilation, use, and publication of information and consumer privacy could result in limitations on our operations, increased compliance or litigation expense, adverse publicity, or loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our customers' needs. our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position. our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of digital and other media. our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions in foreign countries, inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries, differing accounting principles and standards, unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, the costs of repatriating cash held by entities outside the united states, including withholding or other taxes that 15 table of contents foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries, potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions, competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, we are subject to complex u.s., european and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws, anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act 2010, anti-bribery laws, anti-money laundering laws, and other financial crimes laws. although we have implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated trade sanctions, anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, financial condition or results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyber attack, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our ability to continue to operate will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we could experience operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel, that could have a material adverse effect on our business. we regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. outsourcing certain aspects of our business could result in disruption and increased costs. we have outsourced certain support functions to third-party service providers to leverage leading specialized capabilities and achieve cost efficiencies. if the service providers to which we have outsourced these functions to do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and, depending on the function involved, we may experience business disruption, processing inefficiencies, or harm employee morale. 16 table of contents we rely heavily on network systems and the internet and any failures or disruptions may adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. many of our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process transactions rapidly and deliver substantial quantities of data on computer-based networks. our customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems, our websites and the internet. our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may be impaired due to infrastructure or network failures, malicious or defective software, human error, natural disasters, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. delays in our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may harm our reputation and result in the loss of customers. in addition, a number of our customers entrust us with storing and securing their data and information on our servers. although we have disaster recovery plans that include backup facilities for our primary data centers, our systems are not always fully redundant, and our disaster planning may not always be sufficient or effective. as such, these disruptions may affect our ability to store, handle and secure such data and information. our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located, including new york city, the location of our headquarters, and major cities worldwide in which we have offices. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise. our efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of our major operating systems may not be successful. we rely on third-party providers to provide certain essential services. while we believe that such providers are reliable, we have limited control over the performance of such providers. to the extent any of our third-party providers ceases to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or fail to adequately expand its services to meet our needs and the needs of our customers, we could experience lower revenues and higher costs. we also do not have fully redundant systems for most of our smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and our disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of our locations or systems and our personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons' ability to service and interact with our clients and customers may suffer. we cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from our failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. a disruption to our operations or infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive and other types of information in our computer systems and networks and those of our third party vendors. the cyber risks we face range from cyber-attacks common to most industries, to more advanced threats that target us because of our prominence in the global marketplace, or due to our ratings of sovereign debt. breaches of our or our vendors' technology and systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, computer viruses or malware, employee error, malfeasance, physical breaches or other actions, may cause material interruptions or malfunctions in our or such vendors' web sites, applications or data processing, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information regarding us or our business or customers. 17 table of contents measures that we take to avoid or mitigate material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become obsolete. any material incidents could cause us to experience reputational harm, loss of customers, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 18 table of contentsrisk factors we are providing the following cautionary statements which identify all known material risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results. we operate in the capital, commodities and commercial markets. the capital markets include asset managers, investment banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, exchanges, and issuers; the commodities markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, metals, petrochemicals and agriculture; and the commercial markets include professionals and corporate executives within automotive, financial services, insurance and marketing / research information services. certain risk factors are applicable to certain of our individual segments while other risk factors are applicable company-wide. exposure to litigation and government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in the normal course of business, both in the united states and abroad, we and our subsidiaries are defendants in numerous legal proceedings and are often the subject of government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries, as discussed under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this annual report on form 10-k and in note 13 - commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under item 8, consolidated financial statements and supplementary data , in this annual report on form 10-k, and we face the risk that additional proceedings, investigations and inquiries will arise in the future. many of these proceedings, investigations and inquiries relate to the ratings activity of s&amp;p global ratings brought by issuers and alleged purchasers of rated securities. in addition, various government and self-regulatory agencies frequently make inquiries and conduct investigations into our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including those related to ratings activities and antitrust matters. any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties or activity restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in view of the uncertainty inherent in litigation and government and regulatory enforcement matters, we cannot predict the eventual outcome of the matters we are currently facing or the timing of their resolution, or in most cases reasonably estimate what the eventual judgments, damages, fines, penalties or impact of activity restrictions may be. as a result, we cannot provide assurance that the outcome of the matters we are currently facing or that we may face in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as litigation or the process to resolve pending matters progresses, as the case may be, we continuously review the latest information available and assess our ability to predict the outcome of such matters and the effects, if any, on our consolidated financial condition, cash flows, business and competitive position, which may require that we record liabilities in the consolidated financial statements in future periods. legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues. risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the united states. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, 7 table of contents thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations against the company in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results. we have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen our business and grow our company. such transactions present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect our ability to complete such transactions. if we are unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. for instance, the process of integration may require more resources than anticipated, we may assume unintended liabilities, there may be unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures, we may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business and such transactions may divert management's focus from other business operations. the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. as a result, the failure of acquisitions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in the volume of securities issued and traded in domestic and/or global capital markets, asset levels and flows into investment products, changes in interest rates and volatility in the financial markets, and volatility in the commodities markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the united states and world financial markets. therefore, since a significant component of our credit-rating based revenue is transaction-based, and is essentially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets, unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers' willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuances for which ratings provides credit ratings. our indices business is impacted by market volatility, asset levels of investment products tracking indices, and trading volumes of certain exchange traded derivatives. a decrease in our revenues attributable to these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. volatile capital markets, as well as changing investment styles, among other factors, may influence an investor's decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the level of derivatives trading and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our platts business is impacted by volatility in the commodities markets. weak economic conditions, especially in our key markets, including the energy industry, could reduce demand for our products, impacting our revenues and margins. as a result of volatility in commodity prices and trading activity in physical commodities and commodities derivatives, we may encounter difficulty in achieving sustained market acceptance of past or future contract terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. any weakness in the macroeconomic environment could constrain customer budgets across the markets we serve, potentially leading to a reduction in their employee headcount and a decrease in demand for our subscription-based products. increasing regulation of our ratings business in the united states, europe and elsewhere can increase our costs of doing business and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is highly regulated, rapidly evolving and subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states, europe and elsewhere. the businesses conducted by ratings are in certain cases regulated under the credit rating agency reform act of 2006 (the reform act ), the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer 8 table of contents protection act (the dodd-frank act ), the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ), and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years, the u.s. congress, the international organization of securities commissions ("iosco"), the sec and the european commission, including through the european securities market authority ("esma"), as well as regulators in other countries in which ratings operates, have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are being considered by local, national and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future, including provisions seeking to reduce regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings, rotation of credit rating agencies and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies. these laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which we may be unable to pass through to customers. in addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. we may be required to incur significant expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations and to mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be uncertainty over and exposure to liability. it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on our business and our customers' businesses, and they may affect ratings' communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which ratings' ratings are developed, affect the manner in which ratings or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business. each of these developments increases the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on our operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. additional information regarding rating agencies is provided under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this annual report on form 10-k. our indices and market and commodities intelligence businesses are subject to the potential for increased or changing regulation in the united states, europe and elsewhere, which can increase our costs of doing business globally and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations, foreign jurisdictions, principally in europe, have taken measures to increase regulation of the financial services and commodities industries. in october of 2012, iosco issued its principles for oil price reporting agencies ("pra principles"), which iosco states are intended to enhance the reliability of oil price assessments that are referenced in derivative contracts subject to regulation by iosco members. platts has taken steps to align its operations with the pra principles and, as recommended by iosco in its final report on the pra principles, has aligned to the pra principles for other commodities for which it publishes benchmarks. in july of 2013, iosco issued its principles for financial benchmarks ("financial benchmark principles"), which are intended to promote the reliability of benchmark determinations, and address governance, benchmark quality and accountability mechanisms, including with regard to the indices published by indices. indices has taken steps to align its governance regime and operations with the financial benchmark principles and engaged an independent auditor to perform a reasonable assurance review of such alignment. the financial benchmarks industry is subject to the new pending benchmark regulation in the european union (the e.u. benchmark regulation ) as well as potential increased regulation in other jurisdictions, including australia. the e.u. benchmark regulation was published on june 30, 2016 and included provisions applicable to indices and platts, which will become effective january 1, 2018. the e.u. benchmark regulation requires indices and platts in due course to obtain registration or authorization in connection with their respective benchmark activities in europe. this legislation will likely cause additional operating obligations but they are not expected to be material at this time, although the exact impact remains unclear. the european union has recently finalized a package of legislative measures known as mifid ii ("mifid ii"), which revise and update the existing e.u. markets in financial instruments directive framework. mifid ii applies in full in all e.u. member states as of january 3, 2017. mifid ii includes provisions that, among other things: (i) impose new conditions and requirements on the licensing of benchmarks and provide for non-discriminatory access to exchanges and clearing houses; (ii) modify the categorization and treatment of certain classes of derivatives; (iii) expand the categories of trading venue that are subject to regulation; and (iv) provide for the mandatory trading of certain derivatives on exchanges (complementing the mandatory derivative clearing requirements in the e.u. market infrastructure regulation of 2011). although the mifid ii package is framework legislation (meaning that much of the detail of the rules will be set out in subordinate measures to be agreed upon in the period before 2017), it is possible that the introduction of these laws and rules could affect indices' and platts' abilities both to administer and license their indices and price assessments, respectively. mifid ii and the market abuse regulation ( mar ) may impose additional regulatory 9 table of contents burdens on market and commodities intelligence's activities in the european union, although the exact severity and cost are not yet known. market and commodities intelligence operates regulated investment advisory businesses in the united states, the european union and malaysia. these and other market and commodities intelligence businesses may increasingly become subject to new or more stringent regulations that will increase the cost of doing business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. future legislation, regulatory reform or policy changes under the current u.s. administration could have a material effect on our business and results of operations. there exists the potential for comprehensive tax reform in the united states that may significantly change the tax rules applicable to u.s. domiciled corporations. changes such as lower corporate tax rates, repatriation allowances, removal of the interest expense deduction, removal of the municipal bond tax exemption or the introduction of a border adjustment tax could impact the company as a u.s. taxpayer, as well as the demand for our products and services. at this time, we cannot assess what the overall effect of such potential legislation could be on our results of operations or cash flows. other legislation, regulatory reform or policy changes under the current u.s. administration, such as financial services regulatory reform, u.s. oil deregulation, government-sponsored enterprise (gse) reform and increased infrastructure spending, could impact our business. at this time, we cannot predict the scope or nature of these changes or assess what the overall effect of such potential changes could be on our results of operations or cash flows. regulatory changes and economic conditions leading up to and following the united kingdom's likely exit from the european union could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. following a referendum on june 23, 2016 in which voters in the united kingdom ("u.k.") approved an exit from the european union ("eu"), it is expected that the u.k. government will initiate a process to leave the eu (often referred to as brexit) and begin negotiating the terms of the u.k.'s future relationship with the eu. any impact from brexit on the company will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, trade and other negotiations. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations between the u.k and the eu as the u.k. determines which eu laws to replace or replicate and the eu determines how to treat regulated activities (e.g., the activities of credit rating agencies) originating in the u.k. our businesses are subject to increasing regulation of the financial services and commodities industries in europe. potential changes in eu regulation and/or additional regulation in the u.k. could cause additional operating obligations and increased costs for our businesses. any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. some of our products support the investment processes of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased competition could result in a loss of market share or revenue. the markets for credit ratings, financial research, investment and advisory services, market data, index-based products, and commodities price assessments and related news and information about these markets are intensely competitive. ratings, market and commodities intelligence and indices compete domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of its ratings, data, research and advisory services, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. while our businesses face competition from traditional content and analytics providers, we also face competition from non-traditional providers such as exchanges, asset managers, investment banks and technology-led companies that are adding content and analytics capabilities to their core businesses. in addition, in some of the countries in which ratings competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. 10 table of contents sustained downward pressure on oil and other commodities prices and trading activity in those markets could have a material adverse effect on the rate of growth of platts' revenue, including subscription and licensing fees. introduction of new products, services or technologies could impact our profitability. we operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and new ways to deliver our products and services. these investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. we could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment in which we operate. we rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. we believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our business could be subject to significant disruption and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or unauthorized access to our systems. a significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. our major expenditures include employee compensation and capital investments. we offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require. we make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives and we cannot provide assurances that such investments will result in increased revenues. although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. increased availability of free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and have a could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in recent years, more public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have become available, particularly through the internet, and advances in public cloud computing and open source software may continue. public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products and services. demand could also be reduced as a result of cost-cutting initiatives at certain companies and organizations. although we believe our products are enhanced by our analysis, tools and applications, our financial results may be adversely affected if our customers choose to use these public sources as a substitute for our products or services. consolidation of customers as well as staffing levels across our customer base could impact our available markets and revenue growth. our businesses have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the corporate, financial services and commodities industries. the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions across these industries can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. our customers that strive to reduce their operating costs may seek to reduce their spending on our products and services. if a large number of smaller customers or a critical number of larger customers reduce their spending with us, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. alternatively, customers may use other strategies to reduce their overall spending on financial and commodity market products and services by consolidating their spending with fewer vendors, including by selecting other vendors with lower-cost offerings, or by self-sourcing their need for financial and commodity market products and services. if customers elect to consolidate their spending on financial and commodity market products and services with other vendors and not us, if we lose business to lower priced competitors, or if customers elect to self-source their product and service needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. a material portion of our revenues in our indices business is concentrated in some of our largest customers, who have significant assets under management in index funds and exchange-traded funds. a loss of a substantial portion of revenue from our largest customers could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 11 table of contents if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. some of our products are dependent upon (and of little value without) updates from our data suppliers and most of our information and data products are dependent upon (and of little value without) continuing access to historical and current data. we utilize certain data provided by third-party data sources in a variety of ways, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. if the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice. termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider's information could decrease the available information for us to use (and offer our clients) and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in the legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may materially and adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, and publish data and may impact our financial results. certain types of information we collect, compile, use, and publish, including offerings in our market and commodities intelligence business, are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. in addition, there is increasing concern among certain privacy advocates and government regulators regarding marketing and privacy matters, particularly as they relate to individual privacy interests. these concerns may result in new or amended laws and regulations. future laws and regulations with respect to the collection, compilation, use, and publication of information and consumer privacy could result in limitations on our operations, increased compliance or litigation expense, adverse publicity, or loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our customers' needs. our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position. our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of digital and other media. our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. our products also contain intellectual property of third party sources. any violation by us of the intellectual property rights of such third parties could result in litigation and reputational damage which materially and adversely affects our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions around the world, inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries, differing accounting principles and standards, unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, the costs of repatriating cash held by entities outside the united states, including withholding or other taxes that foreign governments may impose on the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries, potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions, 12 table of contents competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, we are subject to complex u.s., european and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws, anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act 2010, anti-bribery laws, anti-money laundering laws, and other financial crimes laws. although we have implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated trade sanctions, anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, financial condition or results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyber attack, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our ability to continue to operate will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we could experience operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel, that could have a material adverse effect on our business. we regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. outsourcing certain aspects of our business could result in disruption and increased costs. we have outsourced certain support functions to third-party service providers to leverage leading specialized capabilities and achieve cost efficiencies. outsourcing these functions involves the risk that the third-party service providers may not perform to our standards or legal requirements, may not produce reliable results, may not perform in a timely manner, may not maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information, or may fail to perform at all. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, confidentiality, or other obligations to us could result in material financial loss, higher costs, regulatory actions and reputational harm. outsourcing these functions also involves the risk that the third-party service providers may not maintain adequate physical, technical and administrative safeguards to protect the security of our confidential information and data. failure of these third parties to maintain these safeguards could result in unauthorized access to our systems or a system or network disruption that could lead to improper disclosure of confidential information or data, regulatory penalties and remedial costs. we rely heavily on network systems and the internet and any failures or disruptions may adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. many of our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process transactions rapidly and deliver substantial quantities of data on computer-based networks. our customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems, our websites and the internet. our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may be impaired due to infrastructure or network failures, malicious or defective software, human error, natural disasters, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. delays in our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may harm our reputation and result in the loss of customers. in addition, a number of our customers entrust us with storing and securing their data and information on our servers. 13 table of contents although we have disaster recovery plans that include backup facilities for our primary data centers, our systems are not always fully redundant, and our disaster planning may not always be sufficient or effective. as such, these disruptions may affect our ability to store, handle and secure such data and information. our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located, including new york city, the location of our headquarters, and major cities worldwide in which we have offices. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise. our efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of our major operating systems may not be successful. we also do not have fully redundant systems for most of our smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and our disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of our locations or systems and our personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons' ability to service and interact with our clients and customers may suffer. we cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from our failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. a disruption to our operations or infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive and other types of data and information in our computer systems and networks and those of our third-party vendors. all of our businesses have access to material non-public information concerning the company's customers, including sovereigns, corporate issuers and other third parties around the world, the unauthorized disclosure of which could affect the trading markets for such customers' securities and could damage such customers' competitive positions. the cyber risks the company faces range from cyber-attacks common to most industries, to more sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to certain information or systems due in part to our prominence in the global marketplace, such as our ratings on debt issued by sovereigns and corporate issuers, or the composition of our indices. unauthorized disclosure of this information could cause our customers to lose faith in our ability to protect their confidential information and therefore cause customers to cease doing business with us. breaches of our or our vendors' systems and networks, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, computer viruses or malware, employee error, malfeasance, physical breaches or other actions, may cause material interruptions or malfunctions in our or such vendors' websites, applications or data processing, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information regarding us, our business or our customers. misappropriation, improper modification, destruction, corruption or unavailability of our data and information due to cyber incidents, attacks or other security breaches could damage our brand and reputation, result in litigation and regulatory actions, and lead to loss of customer confidence in our security measures and reliability, which would harm our ability to retain customers and gain new ones. although s&amp;p global and its affiliates devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update their systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of our computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to the enterprise and our customers, clients and employees, there is no assurance that all of our security measures will provide absolute security. measures that we take to avoid or mitigate material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or become obsolete. any material incidents could cause us to experience reputational harm, loss of customers, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us, and increased expenses related to addressing or mitigating the risks associated with any such material incidents. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, as cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat the measures that we or our vendors take to anticipate, detect, avoid or mitigate such threats. certain techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, introduce malicious software, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems may be designed to remain dormant until a triggering event and we may be unable to anticipate these 14 table of contents techniques or implement adequate preventative measures since techniques change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could result in damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business could result in significantly increased security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. costs to comply with and implement these privacy-related and data protection measures could be significant. in addition, if despite our best efforts an inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations should occur, this could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. inability to attract and retain key qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the development, maintenance and support of our products and services are dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, our business is dependent on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. if the company is less successful in its recruiting efforts, or if it is unable to retain key employees, its ability to develop and deliver successful products and services or achieve strategic goals may be adversely affected. hiver2016! our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. our ability to attract and retain customers is affected by external perceptions of our brand and reputation. negative perceptions or publicity could damage our reputation with customers, prospects and the public generally, which could negatively impact, among other things, our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and suppliers, as well as suitable candidates for acquisition or other combinations. 15 table of contentsrisk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. we operate in the capital and commodities markets. the capital markets include asset managers, investment banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, exchanges, trading firms, and issuers; the commodities markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, metals, petrochemicals and agriculture. certain risk factors are applicable to certain of our individual segments while other risk factors are applicable company-wide. exposure to litigation and government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in the normal course of business, both in the united states and abroad, we and our subsidiaries are defendants in numerous legal proceedings and are often the subject of government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries, as discussed under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this annual report on form 10-k and in note 13 - commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under item 8, consolidated financial statements and supplementary data , in this annual report on form 10-k, and we face the risk that additional proceedings, investigations and inquiries will arise in the future. many of these proceedings, investigations and inquiries relate to the ratings activity of s&amp;p global ratings brought by issuers and alleged purchasers of rated securities. in addition, various government and self-regulatory agencies frequently make inquiries and conduct investigations into our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including those related to ratings activities and antitrust matters. any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties or activity restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in view of the uncertainty inherent in litigation and government and regulatory enforcement matters, we cannot predict the eventual outcome of the matters we are currently facing or the timing of their resolution, or in most cases reasonably estimate what the eventual judgments, damages, fines, penalties or impact of activity restrictions may be. as a result, we cannot provide assurance that the outcome of the matters we are currently facing or that we may face in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as litigation or the process to resolve pending matters progresses, as the case may be, we continuously review the latest information available and assess our ability to predict the outcome of such matters and the effects, if any, on our consolidated financial condition, cash flows, business and competitive position, which may require that we record liabilities in the consolidated financial statements in future periods. legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues. risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the united states. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations against the company in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 7 table of contents our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results. we have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen our business and grow our company. such transactions present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect our ability to complete such transactions. if we are unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. for instance, the process of integration may require more resources than anticipated, we may assume unintended liabilities, there may be unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures, we may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business and such transactions may divert management's focus from other business operations. the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. as a result, the failure of acquisitions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in the volume of securities issued and traded in domestic and/or global capital markets, asset levels and flows into investment products, changes in interest rates and volatility in the financial markets, and volatility in the commodities markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the united states and world financial markets. therefore, since a significant component of our credit-rating based revenue is transaction-based, and is essentially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets, unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers' willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuances for which ratings provides credit ratings. our indices business is impacted by market volatility, asset levels of investment products tracking indices, and trading volumes of certain exchange traded derivatives. a decrease in our revenues attributable to these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. volatile capital markets, as well as changing investment styles, among other factors, may influence an investor's decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the level of derivatives trading and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our platts business is impacted by volatility in the commodities markets. weak economic conditions, especially in our key markets, including the energy industry, could reduce demand for our products, impacting our revenues and margins. as a result of volatility in commodity prices and trading activity in physical commodities and commodities derivatives, we may encounter difficulty in achieving sustained market acceptance of past or future contract terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. any weakness in the macroeconomic environment could constrain customer budgets across the markets we serve, potentially leading to a reduction in their employee headcount and a decrease in demand for our subscription-based products. increasing regulation of our ratings business in the united states, europe and elsewhere can increase our costs of doing business and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is highly regulated, rapidly evolving and subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states, europe and elsewhere. the businesses conducted by ratings are in certain cases regulated under the credit rating agency reform act of 2006 (the reform act ), the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ), the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ), and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years, the u.s. congress, the international organization of securities commissions ("iosco"), the sec and the european commission, including through the european securities market authority ("esma"), as well as regulators in other countries in which ratings operates, have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are being considered by local, national and 8 table of contents multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future, including provisions seeking to reduce regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings, and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies. these laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which we may be unable to pass through to customers. in addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. we may be required to incur significant expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations and to mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be uncertainty over and exposure to liability. it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on our business and our customers' businesses, and they may affect ratings' communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which ratings' ratings are developed, affect the manner in which ratings or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business. each of these developments increases the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on our operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. additional information regarding rating agencies is provided under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this annual report on form 10-k. our indices and market and commodities intelligence businesses are subject to the potential for increased or changing regulation in the united states, europe and elsewhere, which can increase our costs of doing business globally and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations, foreign jurisdictions, principally in europe, have taken measures to increase regulation of the financial services and commodities industries. in october of 2012, iosco issued its principles for oil price reporting agencies ("pra principles"), which iosco states are intended to enhance the reliability of oil price assessments that are referenced in derivative contracts subject to regulation by iosco members. platts has taken steps to align its operations with the pra principles and, as recommended by iosco in its final report on the pra principles, has aligned to the pra principles for other commodities for which it publishes benchmarks. in july of 2013, iosco issued its principles for financial benchmarks ("financial benchmark principles"), which are intended to promote the reliability of benchmark determinations, and address governance, benchmark quality and accountability mechanisms, including with regard to the indices published by indices. indices has taken steps to align its governance regime and operations with the financial benchmark principles and engages an independent auditor to perform an annual reasonable assurance review of such alignment. the benchmark industry is subject to the new regulation in the european union (the eu benchmark regulation ) as well as potential increased regulation of financial benchmarks in other jurisdictions. the eu benchmark regulation was published on june 30, 2016, with provisions applicable to indices and platts, effective from january 1, 2018. esma has published additional guidance clarifying that existing benchmark administrators such as indices and platts may utilize the transitional provisions contained in the eu benchmark regulation, which provides them two (2) years to implement and seek authorization by an eu national competent authority by january 1, 2020, with their respective benchmark activities in europe. this legislation will likely cause additional operating obligations but they are not expected to be material at this time, although the exact impact remains unclear. the eu has finalized a package of legislative measures called the markets in financial instruments directive and regulation (collectively "mifid ii"), which revise and update the existing markets in financial instruments directive (2004) and its associated secondary legislation. mifid ii entered into force on july 2, 2014, and the substantive provisions apply in all eu member states as of january 3, 2018. mifid ii includes provisions that, among other things: (i) mandate new conditions and requirements on the licensing of benchmarks for the purposes of clearing related securities and provide for non-discriminatory access to exchanges and clearing houses for this purpose; (ii) modify the categorization and treatment of certain classes of derivatives; (iii) expand the categories of trading venues that are subject to regulation; (iv) require the unbundling of investment research from other services, including execution services, and direct that investment firms must pay for research either out of a dedicated research payment account which is paid for by clients or from the investment firm's profits; and (v) provide for the mandatory trading of certain derivatives on exchanges (complementing the mandatory derivative clearing requirements in the eu market infrastructure regulation of 2011, or emir). the introduction of the mifid ii package may result in changes to the manner in which s&amp;p dow jones indices and platts license their indices and price assessments, respectively, and could also have an indirect impact on the credit ratings and third-party research products offered by other divisions of the company for use within the eu. mifid ii and the market abuse regulation ( mar ) may impose additional regulatory burdens on the activities of s&amp;p dow jones indices and market and commodities intelligence in the eu, although the exact impact and costs are not yet known. market and commodities intelligence operates regulated investment advisory businesses in the united states and the european union. this business and other market and commodities intelligence businesses may increasingly become 9 table of contents subject to new or more stringent regulations that will increase the cost of doing business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. recent and future legislation, regulatory reform or policy changes under the current u.s. administration could have a material effect on our business and results of operations. the recently enacted tax reform in the united states significantly changes the tax rules applicable to u.s. domiciled corporations. changes such as lower corporate tax rates, full expensing for qualified property, taxation of offshore earnings, limitations on interest expense deductions, and changes to the municipal bond tax exemption may impact demand for our products and services. at this time, we cannot assess what the overall effect of such legislation could be on our results of operations or cash flows. other legislation, regulatory reform or policy changes under the current u.s. administration, such as financial services regulatory reform, u.s. oil deregulation, government-sponsored enterprise (gse) reform and increased infrastructure spending could impact our business. at this time, we cannot predict the scope or nature of these changes or assess what the overall effect of such potential changes could be on our results of operations or cash flows. regulatory changes and economic conditions leading up to and following the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. voters in the united kingdom ("uk") approved an exit from the eu via a referendum on june 23, 2016. on march 29, 2017, the uk invoked article 50 of the treaty on the european union, commencing the process to leave the eu ( brexit ). negotiations on the terms of the uk's future relationship with the eu are ongoing, with the uk due to exit the eu on march 29, 2019. any impact from brexit on the company will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, trade and other negotiations. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations between the uk and the eu as the uk determines which eu laws to replace or replicate and the eu determines how to treat regulated activities (e.g., the activities of credit rating agencies) originating in the uk. our businesses are subject to increasing regulation of the financial services and commodities industries in europe. potential changes in eu regulation and/or additional regulation in the uk could cause additional operating obligations and increased costs for our businesses. changes to uk immigration policy as a result of brexit could adversely affect our ability to retain talent for our european operations. any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. some of our products support the investment processes and other activities of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. use of our products as part of such activities, including the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased competition could result in a loss of market share or revenue. the markets for credit ratings, financial research, investment advisory services, market data, index-based products, and commodities price assessments and related news and information about these markets are intensely competitive. ratings, market and commodities intelligence and indices compete domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of their ratings, data, research and advisory services, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. while our businesses face competition from traditional content and analytics providers, we also face competition from non-traditional providers such as exchanges, asset managers, investment banks and technology-led companies that are adding content and analytics capabilities to their core businesses. in addition, in some of the countries in which ratings competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. sustained downward pressure on oil and other commodities prices and trading activity in those markets could have a material adverse effect on the rate of growth of platts' revenue, including subscription and licensing fees. 10 table of contents introduction of new products or services could impact our profitability. we operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and new ways to deliver our products and services. these investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. we could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment in which we operate. our ability to develop, adapt, or implement new and improved processes and technology may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. the rapid change of technology is a key feature of all of the markets in which we operate. to succeed in the future, we will need to deploy improved processes and technology to innovate, design, develop, assemble, test, market, and support new products and enhancements to our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner. innovation and constant development in support of new products and enhancements to existing products calls for the implementation of new and improved processes and technologies that require related change management efforts. the products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. such errors may exist during any part of a product's life cycle and may persist notwithstanding extensive testing. deploying products containing such errors may damage our reputation and the costs associated with remediating such errors may have an impact on our profitability. while we employ a certain level of internal and external resources to mitigate the risks associated with implementing process and technology improvements, we may face unexpected challenges in execution that may require more management attention than expected, thus diverting management time and energy from other businesses. the foregoing and other unforeseen factors could also result in business being disrupted for a period of time as well as additional commitments of financial resources. a significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. our major expenditures include employee compensation and capital investments. we offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require. we make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives and we cannot provide assurances that such investments will result in increased revenues. although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. increased availability of free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in recent years, more public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have become available, particularly through the internet, and advances in public cloud computing and open source software may continue. public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products and services. demand could also be reduced as a result of cost-cutting initiatives at certain companies and organizations. although we believe our products are enhanced by our analysis, tools and applications, our financial results may be adversely affected if our customers choose to use these public sources as a substitute for our products or services. consolidation of customers as well as staffing levels across our customer base could impact our available markets and revenue growth. our businesses have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the corporate, financial services and commodities industries. the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions across these industries can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. our customers that strive to reduce their operating costs may seek to reduce their spending on our products and services. if a large number of smaller customers or a critical number of larger customers reduce their spending with us, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. alternatively, customers may use other strategies to reduce their overall spending on financial and commodity market products and services by consolidating their spending with fewer vendors, including by selecting other vendors with 11 table of contents lower-cost offerings, or by self-sourcing their need for financial and commodity market products and services. if customers elect to consolidate their spending on financial and commodity market products and services with other vendors and not us, if we lose business to lower priced competitors, or if customers elect to self-source their product and service needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. a material portion of our revenues in our indices business is concentrated in some of our largest customers, who have significant assets under management in index funds and exchange-traded funds. a loss of a substantial portion of revenue from our largest customers could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. some of our products and their related value are dependent upon updates from our data suppliers and most of our information and data products are dependent upon continuing access to historical and current data. we utilize certain data provided by third-party data sources in a variety of ways, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. if the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice. termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider's information could decrease the available information for us to use (and offer our clients) and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in the legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may materially and adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, and publish data and may impact our financial results. certain types of information we collect, compile, use, and publish, including offerings in our market and commodities intelligence business, are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. in addition, there is increasing concern among certain privacy advocates and government regulators regarding marketing and privacy matters, particularly as they relate to individual privacy interests. there has been increased public attention regarding the use of personal information and data transfer, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer and personal privacy. the law in these areas continues to develop and the changing nature of privacy laws in the u.s., the european union and elsewhere could impact our processing of personal and sensitive information of our employees, vendors and customers. the european union adopted a comprehensive general data privacy regulation (the gdpr ) in may 2016 that will replace the current eu data protection directive and related country-specific legislation. the gdpr will become fully effective in may 2018. gdpr requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. failure to comply with gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. gdpr and other similar laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may be costly to comply with, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business, including fines or demands or orders that we modify or cease existing business practices. continued privacy concerns may result in new or amended laws and regulations. future laws and regulations with respect to the collection, compilation, use, and publication of information and consumer privacy could result in limitations on our operations, increased compliance or litigation expense, adverse publicity, or loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our customers' needs. our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position. we consider many of our products and services to be proprietary. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our reputation and affect our ability to compete effectively. businesses we acquire may also have intellectual property portfolios which increase the complexity of managing our intellectual property portfolio and protecting our competitive position. 12 table of contents our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of digital and other media. our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property rights against infringement and misappropriation. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. our products also contain intellectual property of third party sources. any violation by us of the intellectual property rights of such third parties could result in termination of the relevant source agreement, litigation and reputational damage which could materially and adversely affects our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions around the world, inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries, differing accounting principles and standards, unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions, competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, we are subject to complex u.s., european and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws, anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act 2010, anti-money laundering laws, and other financial crimes laws. although we have implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated trade sanctions, anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, or restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, financial condition or results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyberattack, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our ability to continue to operate will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we could experience operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel, that could have a material adverse effect on our business. we regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. 13 table of contents outsourcing certain aspects of our business could result in disruption and increased costs. we have outsourced certain functions to third-party service providers to leverage leading specialized capabilities and achieve cost efficiencies. outsourcing these functions involves the risk that the third-party service providers may not perform to our standards or legal requirements, may not produce reliable results, may not perform in a timely manner, may not maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information, or may fail to perform at all. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, confidentiality, or other obligations to us could result in material financial loss, higher costs, regulatory actions and reputational harm. outsourcing these functions also involves the risk that the third-party service providers may not maintain adequate physical, technical and administrative safeguards to protect the security of our confidential information and data. failure of these third parties to maintain these safeguards could result in unauthorized access to our systems or a system or network disruption that could lead to improper disclosure of confidential information or data, regulatory penalties and remedial costs. we also rely on the business infrastructure and systems of third parties with whom we do business and to whom we outsource the maintenance and development of operational and technological functionality, including third-party cloud infrastructure. our cloud infrastructure providers, or other service providers, could experience system breakdowns or failures, outages, downtime, cyberattacks, adverse changes to financial condition, bankruptcy or other adverse conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. thus, our plans to increase the amount of our infrastructure that we outsource to the cloud or to other third parties may increase our risk exposure. we rely heavily on network systems and the internet and any failures or disruptions may adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. many of our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process transactions rapidly and deliver substantial quantities of data on computer-based networks. our customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems, our websites and the internet. our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may be impaired due to infrastructure or network failures, malicious or defective software, human error, natural disasters, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. delays in our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may harm our reputation and result in the loss of customers. in addition, a number of our customers entrust us with storing and securing their data and information on our servers. although we have disaster recovery plans that include backup facilities for our primary data centers, our systems are not always fully redundant, and our disaster planning may not always be sufficient or effective. as such, these disruptions may affect our ability to store, handle and secure such data and information. our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located, including new york city, the location of our headquarters, and major cities worldwide in which we have offices. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise. our efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of our major operating systems may not be successful. we rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. we believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our business could be subject to significant disruption and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or unauthorized access to our systems. we also do not have fully redundant systems for most of our smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and our disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of our locations or systems and our personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons' ability to service and interact with our clients and customers may suffer. 14 table of contents we cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from our failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. a disruption to our operations or infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive and other types of data and information in our computer systems and networks and those of our third-party vendors. all of our businesses have access to material non-public information concerning the company's customers, including sovereigns, corporate issuers and other third parties around the world, the unauthorized disclosure of which could affect the trading markets for such customers' securities and could damage such customers' competitive positions. the cyber risks the company faces range from cyberattacks common to most industries, to more sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to certain information or systems due in part to our prominence in the global marketplace, such as our ratings on debt issued by sovereigns and corporate issuers, or the composition of our indices. unauthorized disclosure of this information could cause our customers to lose faith in our ability to protect their confidential information and therefore cause customers to cease doing business with us. breaches of our or our vendors' systems and networks, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyberattacks, hacking, computer viruses or malware, employee error, malfeasance, physical breaches or other actions, may cause material interruptions or malfunctions in our or such vendors' websites, applications or data processing, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information regarding us, our business or our customers. misappropriation, improper modification, destruction, corruption or unavailability of our data and information due to cyber incidents, attacks or other security breaches could damage our brand and reputation, result in litigation and regulatory actions, and lead to loss of customer confidence in our security measures and reliability, which would harm our ability to retain customers and gain new ones. although s&amp;p global and its affiliates devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update their systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of our computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to the enterprise and our customers, clients and employees, there is no assurance that all of our security measures will provide absolute security. measures that we take to avoid or mitigate material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or become obsolete. any material incidents could cause us to experience reputational harm, loss of customers, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us, and increased expenses related to addressing or mitigating the risks associated with any such material incidents. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, as cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat the measures that we or our vendors take to anticipate, detect, avoid or mitigate such threats. certain techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, introduce malicious software, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems may be designed to remain dormant until a triggering event and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures since techniques change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could result in damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business could result in significantly increased security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. costs to comply with and implement these privacy-related and data protection measures could be significant. in addition, if despite our best efforts an inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations should occur, this could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. given the extent to which our businesses are privy to material non-public information concerning the company's customers, our data could be improperly used, including for insider trading by our employees and third party vendors with access to key systems. it is not always possible to deter misconduct by employees or third party vendors. the precautions we take to detect and prevent such activity, including implementing and training on insider trading policies for our employees and contractual obligations for our third party vendors, may not be effective in all cases. any breach of our clients' confidences as a result of employee or third party vendor misconduct could harm our reputation. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 table of contents inability to attract and retain key qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the development, maintenance and support of our products and services are dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, our business is dependent on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. if the company is less successful in its recruiting efforts, or if it is unable to retain key employees, its ability to develop and deliver successful products and services or achieve strategic goals may be adversely affected. our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. our ability to attract and retain customers is affected by external perceptions of our brand and reputation. negative perceptions or publicity could damage our reputation with customers, prospects and the public generally, which could negatively impact, among other things, our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and suppliers, as well as suitable candidates for acquisition or other combinations. 16 table of contentsrisk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. we operate in the capital and commodities markets. the capital markets include asset managers, investment banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, exchanges, trading firms, and issuers; the commodities markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, metals, petrochemicals and agriculture. certain risk factors are applicable to certain of our individual segments while other risk factors are applicable company-wide. exposure to litigation and government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in the normal course of business, both in the united states and abroad, we and our subsidiaries are defendants in numerous legal proceedings and are often the subject of government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries, as discussed under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this annual report on form 10-k and in note 13 - commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under item 8, consolidated financial statements and supplementary data , in this annual report on form 10-k, and we face the risk that additional proceedings, investigations and inquiries will arise in the future. many of these proceedings, investigations and inquiries relate to the ratings activity of s&amp;p global ratings brought by issuers and alleged purchasers of rated securities. in addition, various government and self-regulatory agencies frequently make inquiries and conduct investigations into our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including those related to ratings activities and antitrust matters. any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties or activity restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in view of the uncertainty inherent in litigation and government and regulatory enforcement matters, we cannot predict the eventual outcome of the matters we are currently facing or the timing of their resolution, or in most cases reasonably 8 table of contents estimate what the eventual judgments, damages, fines, penalties or impact of activity restrictions may be. as a result, we cannot provide assurance that the outcome of the matters we are currently facing or that we may face in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as litigation or the process to resolve pending matters progresses, as the case may be, we continuously review the latest information available and assess our ability to predict the outcome of such matters and the effects, if any, on our consolidated financial condition, cash flows, business and competitive position, which may require that we record liabilities in the consolidated financial statements in future periods. legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues. risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the united states. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations against the company in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results. we have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen our business and grow our company. such transactions present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect our ability to complete such transactions. if we are unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. for instance, the process of integration may require more resources than anticipated, we may assume unintended liabilities, there may be unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures, we may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business and such transactions may divert management's focus from other business operations. the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or other strategic transaction may not be realized fully, or may take longer to realize than expected. as a result, the failure of acquisitions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive and other types of data and information in our computer systems and networks and those of our third-party vendors. all of our businesses have access to material non-public information concerning the company's customers, including sovereigns, corporate issuers and other third parties around the world, the unauthorized disclosure of which could affect the trading markets for such customers' securities and could damage such customers' competitive positions. the cyber risks the company faces range from cyber attacks common to most industries, to more sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to certain information or systems due in part to our prominence in the global marketplace, such as our ratings on debt issued by sovereigns and corporate issuers, or the composition of our indices. unauthorized disclosure of this information could cause our customers to lose faith in our ability to protect their confidential information and therefore cause customers to cease doing business with us. we experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis. although there has not been a cyber attack that has had a material adverse effect on the company to date, there can be no assurance that there will not be a material adverse effect in the future. breaches of our or our vendors' systems and networks, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber attacks, hacking, computer viruses or malware, employee error, malfeasance, physical breaches or other actions, may cause material interruptions or malfunctions in our or such vendors' websites, applications or data processing, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information regarding us, our business or our customers. misappropriation, improper modification, destruction, corruption or unavailability of our data and information due to cyber incidents, attacks or other security breaches could damage our brand and reputation, result in litigation and regulatory 9 table of contents actions, and lead to loss of customer confidence in our security measures and reliability, which would harm our ability to retain customers and gain new ones. although we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update our systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of our computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to the enterprise and our customers, clients and employees, there is no assurance that all of our security measures will provide absolute security. measures that we take to avoid or mitigate material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or become obsolete. any material incidents could cause us to experience reputational harm, loss of customers, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us, and increased expenses related to addressing or mitigating the risks associated with any such material incidents. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, as cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat the measures that we or our vendors take to anticipate, detect, avoid or mitigate such threats. certain techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, introduce malicious software, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems may be designed to remain dormant until a triggering event and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures since techniques change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyber attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could result in damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business could result in significantly increased security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. costs to comply with and implement these privacy-related and data protection measures could be significant. in addition, if despite our best efforts an inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations should occur, this could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. given the extent to which our businesses are privy to material non-public information concerning the company's customers, our data could be improperly used, including for insider trading by our employees and third party vendors with access to key systems. it is not always possible to deter misconduct by employees or third party vendors. the precautions we take to detect and prevent such activity, including implementing and training on insider trading policies for our employees and contractual obligations for our third party vendors, may not be effective in all cases. any breach of our clients' confidences as a result of employee or third party vendor misconduct could harm our reputation. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in the volume of securities issued and traded in domestic and/or global capital markets, asset levels and flows into investment products, changes in interest rates and volatility in the financial markets, and volatility in the commodities markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the united states and world financial markets. therefore, since a significant component of our credit-rating based revenue is transaction-based, and is essentially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets, unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers' willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuances for which ratings provides credit ratings. our indices business is impacted by market volatility, asset levels of investment products tracking indices, and trading volumes of certain exchange traded derivatives. a decrease in our revenues attributable to these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. volatile capital markets, as well as changing investment styles, among other factors, may influence an investor's decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the level of derivatives trading and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our platts business is impacted by volatility in the commodities markets. weak economic conditions, especially in our key markets, including the energy industry, could reduce demand for our products, impacting our revenues and margins. 10 table of contents as a result of volatility in commodity prices and trading activity in physical commodities and commodities derivatives, we may encounter difficulty in achieving sustained market acceptance of past or future contract terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. any weakness in the macroeconomic environment could constrain customer budgets across the markets we serve, potentially leading to a reduction in their employee headcount and a decrease in demand for our subscription-based products. increasing regulation of our ratings business in the united states, europe and elsewhere can increase our costs of doing business and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is highly regulated, rapidly evolving and subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states, europe and elsewhere. the businesses conducted by ratings are in certain cases regulated under the credit rating agency reform act of 2006 (the reform act ), the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ), the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ), and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years, the u.s. congress, the international organization of securities commissions ("iosco"), the sec and the european commission, including through the european securities market authority ("esma"), as well as regulators in other countries in which ratings operates, have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are being considered by local, national and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future, including provisions seeking to reduce regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings, and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies. these laws and regulations, and any future rulemaking, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which we may be unable to pass through to customers. in addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. we may be required to incur significant expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations and to mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. legal proceedings could become increasingly lengthy and there may be uncertainty over and exposure to liability. it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on our business and our customers' businesses, and they may affect ratings' communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which ratings' ratings are developed, affect the manner in which ratings or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business. each of these developments increases the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on our operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. additional information regarding rating agencies is provided under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this annual report on form 10-k. our indices and platts businesses are subject to a new and evolving regulatory regimes in europe and the potential for increased or changing regulations in the united states and elsewhere. our indices business is subject to a new regulatory regime in australia. our indices, market intelligence and platts businesses are subject to additional regulation in europe and our market intelligence business is subject to investment advisory regulation in the united states and europe. this changing regulatory landscape can increase our exposure, compliance risk and costs of doing business globally and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of the financial services and commodities industries. in october of 2012, iosco issued its principles for oil price reporting agencies ("pra principles"), which iosco states are intended to enhance the reliability of oil price assessments that are referenced in derivative contracts subject to regulation by iosco members. platts has taken steps to align its operations with the pra principles and, as recommended by iosco in its final report on the pra principles, has aligned to the pra principles for other commodities for which it publishes benchmarks. in july of 2013, iosco issued its principles for financial benchmarks ("financial benchmark principles"), which are intended to promote the reliability of the benchmark determination process by setting standards related to benchmark governance, benchmark quality, transparency and accountability mechanisms, including with regard to the indices and benchmarks published by indices. indices has taken steps to align its governance regime, control framework and operations with the financial benchmark principles and engages an independent auditor to perform an annual reasonable assurance review of its adherence to the financial benchmark principles. 11 table of contents the benchmark industry is subject to the new regulation in the european union (the eu benchmark regulation ) as well as potential increased regulation of financial benchmarks in other jurisdictions. the eu benchmark regulation was published on june 30, 2016, with provisions applicable to indices and platts, effective from january 1, 2018. esma has published additional guidance clarifying that existing benchmark administrators such as indices and platts may utilize the transitional provisions contained in the eu benchmark regulation, which provides them two (2) years to implement and seek authorization by an eu national competent authority by january 1, 2020, with their respective benchmark activities in europe. this legislation will likely cause additional operating obligations, greater compliance risk and costs for indices but they are not expected to be material at this time, although the exact impact remains unclear. indices is subject to the new benchmark regulation in australia under which it is required to obtain a license from and be subject to the supervision of the australian securities and investment commission regarding its administration of the s&amp;p asx 200 index. this legislation will likely cause additional operating obligations, greater compliance risk and costs for indices but they are not expected to be material at this time, although the exact impact remains unclear. the eu's package of legislative measures called the markets in financial instruments directive and regulation (collectively "mifid ii") entered into force on july 2, 2014, revising and updating the prior markets in financial instruments directive (2004) and its associated secondary legislation. the substantive provisions of mifid ii apply in all eu member states since january 3, 2018. mifid ii includes provisions that, among other things: (i) mandate conditions and requirements on the licensing of benchmarks for the purposes of clearing related securities and provide for non-discriminatory access to exchanges and clearing houses for this purpose; (ii) modify the categorization and treatment of certain classes of derivatives; (iii) expand the categories of trading venues that are subject to regulation; (iv) require the unbundling of investment research from other services, including execution services, and direct that investment firms must pay for research either out of a dedicated research payment account which is paid for by clients or from the investment firm's profits; and (v) provide for the mandatory trading of certain derivatives on exchanges (complementing the mandatory derivative clearing requirements in the eu market infrastructure regulation of 2011, or emir). the mifid ii package may result in changes to the manner in which s&amp;p dow jones indices and platts license their indices and price assessments, respectively, and could also have an indirect impact on the credit ratings and third-party research products offered by other divisions of the company for use within the eu. mifid ii and the market abuse regulation ( mar ) may impose additional regulatory burdens on the activities of s&amp;p dow jones indices and platts in the eu, although the exact impact and costs are not yet known. market intelligence operates regulated investment advisory businesses in the united states and the european union. this business and other market intelligence businesses may increasingly become subject to new or more stringent regulations that will increase the cost of doing business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. recent and future legislation, regulatory reform or policy changes under the current u.s. administration could have a material effect on our business and results of operations. the tax cuts and jobs act enacted in 2017 in the united states significantly changes the tax rules applicable to u.s. domiciled corporations. changes such as lower corporate tax rates, full expensing for qualified property, taxation of offshore earnings, limitations on interest expense deductions, and changes to the municipal bond tax exemption may impact demand for our products and services. while lower than usual issuance in 2018 impacted our business in 2018, at this time, we cannot assess what the overall effect of such legislation could be on our results of operations or cash flows over the longer term. other legislation, regulatory reform or policy changes under the current u.s. administration, such as financial services regulatory reform, u.s. oil deregulation, government-sponsored enterprise reform and increased infrastructure spending and significant changes in trade policy (including sanctions), could impact our business. any of the forgoing changes could impact our results of operations and cash flows directly; such changes may also impact our business by creating increased volatility and uncertainty in the financial and commodities markets. at this time, we cannot predict the scope or nature of these changes or assess what the overall effect of such potential changes could be on our results of operations or cash flows. regulatory changes and economic conditions leading up to and following the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. voters in the united kingdom ("uk") approved an exit from the european union ("eu") via a referendum on june 23, 2016. on march 29, 2017, the uk invoked article 50 of the treaty on the eu, commencing the process to leave the eu ( brexit ). negotiations on the terms of the uk's future relationship with the eu are ongoing, with the uk due to exit the eu on march 29, 2019. in december 2018, the european court of justice ruled that, subject to certain conditions, a member state could revoke notification of its intention to withdraw from the eu. any withdrawal agreement must be approved by the uk parliament as well as by the european council and european parliament before becoming effective. 12 table of contents although the british government and the eu negotiated a withdrawal agreement that was approved by the leaders of eu member states, the agreement failed on january 16, 2019 to receive uk parliamentary approval. while negotiations are continuing, there remains considerable uncertainty around the withdrawal. failure to obtain parliamentary approval of an agreed withdrawal agreement would, absent a revocation of the uk's notification to withdraw or some other delay, mean that the uk would leave the eu on march 29, 2019, likely with no agreement (a so-called hard brexit ). current discussions between the uk and the eu may result in any number of outcomes including an extension or delay of the uk's withdrawal from the eu. the consequences for the economies of the eu member states as a result of the uk's withdrawal from the eu are unknown and unpredictable, especially in the case of a hard brexit. any impact from brexit on the company will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, trade and other negotiations. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations between the uk and the eu as the uk determines which eu laws to replace or replicate and the eu determines how to treat regulated activities (e.g., the activities of credit rating agencies) originating in the uk. our businesses are subject to increasing regulation of the financial services and commodities industries in europe. potential changes in eu regulation and/or additional regulation in the uk could cause additional operating obligations and increased costs for our businesses. changes to uk immigration policy as a result of brexit could adversely affect our ability to retain talent for our european operations. any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. such effects may be heightened in the event of a hard brexit. the lack of certainty given the various possible outcomes creates the risk that notwithstanding that we have devoted valuable resources to a thorough preparation for the impact of brexit on our european operations, we may not be adequately prepared for an unforeseen outcome. changes in the legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may materially and adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, and publish data and may impact our financial results. certain types of information we collect, compile, use, and publish, including offerings in all our businesses, and particularly our market intelligence business, are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. in addition, there is increasing concern among certain privacy advocates and government regulators regarding marketing and privacy matters, particularly as they relate to individual privacy interests. there has been increased public attention regarding the use of personal information and data transfer, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer and personal privacy. the law in these areas continues to develop and the changing nature of privacy laws in the u.s., the european union and elsewhere could impact our processing of personal and sensitive information of our employees, vendors and customers. the european union's comprehensive general data privacy regulation (the gdpr ) became fully effective in may 2018. gdpr requires companies to satisfy new requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. failure to comply with gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. gdpr and other similar laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may be costly to comply with, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business, including fines or demands or orders that we modify or cease existing business practices. california recently enacted legislation, the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), that will, among other things, require covered companies to provide new disclosures to california consumers, and afford such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information, when it goes into effect on january 1, 2020. legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the ccpa before it goes into effect, and it remains unclear what, if any, modifications will be made to this legislation or how it will be interpreted. the effects of the ccpa potentially are significant, however, and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. we may also from time to time be subject to, or face assertions that we are subject to, additional obligations relating to personal data by contract or due to assertions that self-regulatory obligations or industry standards apply to our practices. in addition, other jurisdictions, including china, are considering imposing or have already imposed additional restrictions. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and increasingly conflict among the various countries in which we operate, which could result in greater compliance risk and cost for us. continued privacy concerns may result in new or amended laws and regulations. future laws and regulations with respect to the collection, compilation, use, and publication of information and consumer privacy could result in limitations on our operations, increased compliance or litigation expense, adverse publicity, or loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our customers' needs. 13 table of contents we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. some of our products support the investment processes and other activities of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. use of our products as part of such activities, including the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects, despite testing and/or other quality assurance practices. such errors may exist during any part of a product's life cycle and may persist notwithstanding testing and/or other quality assurance practices. deploying products containing such errors may damage our reputation and the costs associated with remediating such errors may have an impact on our profitability. further, certain of our products rely on proprietary methodologies, models and processes that are subject to various internal governance and control frameworks. despite ongoing review and quality assurance processes, these methodologies, models and processes as well as their respective inputs may also contain undetected errors or defects that may damage our reputation and the costs associated with remediating such errors may have an impact on our profitability. any claim relating to our products, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased competition could result in a loss of market share or revenue. the markets for credit ratings, financial research, investment advisory services, market data, index-based products, and commodities price assessments and related news and information about these markets are intensely competitive. ratings, market intelligence, platts and indices compete domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of their offerings, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. while our businesses face competition from traditional content and analytics providers (including exchanges), we also face competition from non-traditional providers, such as asset managers, investment banks and technology-led companies that are adding content and analytics capabilities to their core businesses. in addition, in some of the countries in which ratings competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. sustained downward pressure on oil and other commodities prices and trading activity in those markets could have a material adverse effect on the rate of growth of platts' revenue, including subscription and licensing fees. introduction of new or enhanced products and services could impact our profitability. we operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and enhancements, including new ways to deliver our products and services. these new or enhanced offerings resulting form our investments may not achieve market acceptance, may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. we could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment in which we operate. our ability to develop, adapt, or implement new and improved processes and technology may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. the rapid change of technology is a key feature of all of the markets in which we operate. to succeed in the future, we will need to deploy improved processes and technology to innovate, design, develop, assemble, test, market, and support new products and enhancements to our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner. innovation and constant development in support of new products and enhancements to existing products calls for the implementation of new and improved processes and technologies that require related change management efforts. while we employ a certain level of internal and external resources to mitigate the risks associated with implementing process and technology improvements, we may face unexpected challenges in execution that may require more management attention than expected, thus diverting management time and energy from other businesses. the foregoing and other unforeseen factors could also result in business being disrupted for a period of time as well as additional commitments of financial resources. 14 table of contents a significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. our major expenditures include employee compensation and capital investments. we offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require. we make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives and we cannot provide assurances that such investments will result in increased revenues. although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. increased availability of free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in recent years, more public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have become available, particularly through the internet, and advances in public cloud computing and open source software may continue. public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products and services. demand could also be reduced as a result of cost-cutting initiatives at certain companies and organizations. although we believe our products are enhanced by our analysis, tools and applications, our financial results may be adversely affected if our customers choose to use these public sources as a substitute for our products or services. consolidation of customers as well as staffing levels across our customer base could impact our available markets and revenue growth. our businesses have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the corporate, financial services and commodities industries. the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions across these industries can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. our customers that strive to reduce their operating costs may seek to reduce their spending on our products and services. if a large number of smaller customers or a critical number of larger customers reduce their spending with us, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. alternatively, customers may use other strategies to reduce their overall spending on financial and commodity market products and services by consolidating their spending with fewer vendors, including by selecting other vendors with lower-cost offerings, or by self-sourcing their need for financial and commodity market products and services. if customers elect to consolidate their spending on financial and commodity market products and services with other vendors and not us, if we lose business to lower priced competitors, or if customers elect to self-source their product and service needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. a material portion of our revenues in our indices business is concentrated in some of our largest customers, who have significant assets under management in index funds and exchange-traded funds. a loss of a substantial portion of revenue from our largest customers could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. some of our products and their related value are dependent upon updates from our data suppliers and most of our information and data products are dependent upon continuing access to historical and current data. we utilize certain data provided by third-party data sources in a variety of ways, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. if the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice. termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider's information could decrease the available information for us to use (and offer our clients) and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 table of contents our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position. we consider many of our products and services to be proprietary. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm the value of and revenue generated by such assets as well as our reputation and affect our ability to compete effectively. businesses we acquire may also have intellectual property portfolios which increase the complexity of managing our intellectual property portfolio and protecting our competitive position. our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of digital and other media. our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property rights against infringement and misappropriation. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. our products also contain intellectual property of third party sources. any violation by us of the intellectual property rights of such third parties could result in termination of the relevant source agreement, litigation and reputational damage which could materially and adversely affects our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions around the world, inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries, differing accounting principles and standards, unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions, competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, we are subject to complex u.s., european and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws, anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act 2010, anti-money laundering laws, and other financial crimes laws. although we have implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that we have violated trade sanctions, anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, or restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, financial condition or results of operations. embargoes and sanctions laws are changing rapidly for certain geographies, including with respect to russia, iran, and venezuela. these embargoes and sanctions laws may affect our ability to continue to market and/or sell our products and services into these geographies. in addition, while we have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of import and export laws and sanctions, violations of these laws or sanctions could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. 16 table of contents should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, pandemic, security breach, cyber attack, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our ability to continue to operate will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we could experience operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel, that could have a material adverse effect on our business. we regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. outsourcing certain aspects of our business could result in disruption and increased costs. we have outsourced certain functions to third-party service providers to leverage leading specialized capabilities and achieve cost efficiencies. outsourcing these functions involves the risk that the third-party service providers may not perform to our standards or legal requirements, may not produce reliable results, may not perform in a timely manner, may not maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information, or may fail to perform at all. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, confidentiality, or other obligations to us could result in material financial loss, higher costs, regulatory actions and reputational harm. outsourcing these functions also involves the risk that the third-party service providers may not maintain adequate physical, technical and administrative safeguards to protect the security of our confidential information and data. failure of these third parties to maintain these safeguards could result in unauthorized access to our systems or a system or network disruption that could lead to improper disclosure of confidential information or data, regulatory penalties and remedial costs. we also rely on the business infrastructure and systems of third parties with whom we do business and to whom we outsource the maintenance and development of operational and technological functionality, including third-party cloud infrastructure. our cloud infrastructure providers, or other service providers, could experience system breakdowns or failures, outages, downtime, cyber attacks, adverse changes to financial condition, bankruptcy or other adverse conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. thus, our plans to increase the amount of our infrastructure that we outsource to the cloud or to other third parties may increase our risk exposure. we rely heavily on network systems and the internet and any failures or disruptions may adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. many of our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process transactions rapidly and deliver substantial quantities of data on computer-based networks. our customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems, our websites and the internet. our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may be impaired due to infrastructure or network failures, malicious or defective software, human error, natural disasters, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. delays in our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may harm our reputation and result in the loss of customers. in addition, a number of our customers entrust us with storing and securing their data and information on our servers. although we have disaster recovery plans that include backup facilities for our primary data centers, our systems are not always fully redundant, and our disaster planning may not always be sufficient or effective. as such, these disruptions may affect our ability to store, handle and secure such data and information. our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located, including new york city, the location of our headquarters, and major cities worldwide in which we have offices. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise. our efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of our major operating systems may not be successful. 17 table of contents we rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. we believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our business could be subject to significant disruption and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or unauthorized access to our systems. we also do not have fully redundant systems for most of our smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and our disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of our locations or systems and our personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons' ability to service and interact with our clients and customers may suffer. we cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from our failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. a disruption to our operations or infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. inability to attract and retain key qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the development, maintenance and support of our products and services are dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, our business is dependent on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. if the company is less successful in its recruiting efforts, or if it is unable to retain key employees, its ability to develop and deliver successful products and services or achieve strategic goals may be adversely affected. our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. our ability to attract and retain customers is affected by external perceptions of our brand and reputation. negative perceptions or publicity could damage our reputation with customers, prospects and the public generally, which could negatively impact, among other things, our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and suppliers, as well as suitable candidates for acquisition or other combinations. our expansion into and investments in new markets may not be successful. we believe there remains significant opportunity to expand our business into major markets, including china, and we are in the process of such expansion efforts. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment and attention from management. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment spent to expand our business into these markets and may forgo opportunities in more lucrative markets, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 table of contentsrisk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. we operate in the capital and commodities markets. the capital markets include asset managers, investment banks, commercial banks, insurance companies, exchanges, trading firms, and issuers; the commodities markets include producers, traders and intermediaries within energy, metals, petrochemicals and agriculture. certain risk factors are applicable to certain of our individual segments while other risk factors are applicable company-wide. changes in the volume of securities issued and traded in domestic and/or global capital markets, asset levels and flows into investment products, changes in interest rates and volatility in the financial markets, and volatility in the commodities markets impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is impacted by general economic conditions and volatility in the united states and world financial markets. economic conditions and volatility across the globe are generally affected by negative or uncertain economic and political conditions. in addition, natural and man-made disasters as well as the outbreak pandemic or contagious diseases introduce volatility and uncertainty into the global capital and commodities markets and negatively impact general economic conditions. volatile, negative or uncertain economic and political conditions in our significant markets have undermined and could in the future undermine business confidence in our significant markets or in other markets, which are increasingly interdependent. because we operate globally and have significant businesses in many markets, increased volatility or an economic slowdown in any of those markets could adversely affect our results of operations. since a significant component of our credit-rating based revenue is transaction-based, and is essentially dependent on the number and dollar volume of debt securities issued in the capital markets, unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers' willingness or ability to issue such securities tend to reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuances for which ratings provides credit ratings. our indices business is impacted by market volatility, asset levels of investment products tracking indices, and trading volumes of certain exchange traded derivatives. volatile capital markets, as well as changing investment styles, among other factors, may influence an investor's decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, the level of derivatives 8 table of contents trading and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our platts business is impacted by volatility in the commodities markets. weak economic conditions, especially in our key markets, including the energy industry, could reduce demand for our products, impacting our revenues and margins. as a result of volatility in commodity prices and trading activity in physical commodities and commodities derivatives, we may encounter difficulty in achieving sustained market acceptance of past or future contract terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. any weakness in the macroeconomic environment could constrain customer budgets across the markets we serve, potentially leading to a reduction in their employee headcount and a decrease in demand for our subscription-based products. the foregoing factors generally affect our performance and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and protection of confidential information. our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive and other types of data and information in our computer systems and networks and those of our third-party vendors. all of our businesses have access to material non-public information concerning the company's customers, including sovereigns, corporate issuers and other third parties around the world, the unauthorized disclosure of which could affect the trading markets for such customers' securities and could damage such customers' competitive positions. the cyber risks the company faces range from cyber attacks common to most industries, to more sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to certain information or systems due in part to our prominence in the global marketplace, such as our ratings on debt issued by sovereigns and corporate issuers, or the composition of our indices. unauthorized disclosure of this information could cause our customers to lose faith in our ability to protect their confidential information and therefore cause customers to cease doing business with us. we experience cyber attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis. although there has not been a cyber attack that has had a material adverse effect on the company to date, there can be no assurance that there will not be a material adverse effect in the future. breaches of our or our vendors' systems and networks, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber attacks, hacking, computer viruses or malware, employee error, malfeasance, physical breaches or other actions, may cause material interruptions or malfunctions in our or such vendors' websites, applications or data processing, or may compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information regarding us, our business or our customers. misappropriation, improper modification, destruction, corruption or unavailability of our data and information due to cyber incidents, attacks or other security breaches could damage our brand and reputation, result in litigation and regulatory actions, and lead to loss of customer confidence in our security measures and reliability, which would harm our ability to retain customers and gain new ones. although we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update our systems and processes that are designed to protect the security of our computer systems, software, networks and other technology assets and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to the enterprise and our customers, clients and employees, there is no assurance that all of our security measures will provide absolute security. measures that we take to avoid or mitigate material incidents can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or become obsolete. while we have not experienced a material incident to date, any material incident could cause us to experience reputational harm, loss of customers, regulatory actions, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by us, and increased expenses related to addressing or mitigating the risks associated with any such material incidents. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, as cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat the measures that we or our vendors take to anticipate, detect, avoid or mitigate such threats. certain techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, introduce malicious software, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems may be designed to remain dormant until a triggering event and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures since techniques change frequently or are not recognized until launched. given the extent to which our businesses are privy to material non-public information concerning our customers, our data could be improperly used, including for insider trading by our employees and third party vendors with access to key systems. we have experienced insider trading incidents involving employees in the past, and it is not always possible to deter misconduct by employees or third party vendors. we take precautions to detect and prevent such activity, including implementing and training on insider trading policies for our employees and contractual obligations for our third party 9 table of contents vendors, but such precautions are not guaranteed to deter misconduct. any breach of our clients' confidences as a result of employee or third party vendor misconduct could harm our reputation. the theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business could result in significantly increased security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. an actual or perceived breach of our security may harm the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and result in damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services. media or other reports of existing or perceived security vulnerabilities in our systems or those of our third-party business partners or service providers can also adversely impact our brand and reputation and materially impact our business. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in the legislative, regulatory, and commercial environments in which we operate may materially and adversely impact our ability to collect, compile, use, and publish data and may impact our financial results. global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. costs to comply with and implement these privacy-related and data protection measures could be significant. in addition, if despite our best efforts an inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations should occur, this could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. certain types of information we collect, compile, use, and publish, including offerings in all our businesses, and particularly our market intelligence business, are subject to regulation by governmental authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate. in addition, there is increasing concern among certain privacy advocates and government regulators regarding marketing and privacy matters, particularly as they relate to individual privacy interests. there has been increased public attention regarding the use of personal information and data transfer, accompanied by legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer and personal privacy. the law in these areas continues to develop and the changing nature of privacy laws in the u.s., the european union ( eu ) and elsewhere could impact our processing of personal and sensitive information of our employees, vendors and customers. the eu's comprehensive general data privacy regulation (the gdpr ) became fully effective in 2018. gdpr requires companies to satisfy requirements regarding the handling of personal and sensitive data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to correct or delete such data about themselves. failure to comply with gdpr requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. gdpr and other similar laws and regulations, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other government actions, may be costly to comply with, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may harm our business, including fines or demands or orders that we modify or cease existing business practices. the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ) became fully effective january 1, 2020, requiring, among other things, covered companies to provide new disclosures to california consumers, and afford such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. the ccpa provides a new private right of action for data breaches and requires companies that process information on california residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use and sharing practices and allow consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties. our reputation and brand and our ability to attract new customers could also be adversely impacted if we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to properly respond to security breaches of our or third party's information technology systems. such failure to properly respond could also result in similar exposure to liability. compliance with the gdpr, the ccpa and other current and future applicable international and u.s. privacy, cybersecurity and related laws can be costly and time-consuming. significant capital investments and other expenditures could also be required to remedy cybersecurity problems and prevent future breaches, including costs associated with additional security technologies, personnel, experts and credit monitoring services for those whose data has been breached. these costs, which could be material, could adversely impact our results of operations in the period in which they are incurred and may not meaningfully limit the success of future attempts to breach our information technology systems. in addition, other jurisdictions, including china, are considering imposing or have already imposed additional restrictions. these laws and regulations are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and increasingly conflict among the various countries in which we operate, which could result in greater compliance risk and cost for us. continued privacy concerns may result in new or amended laws and regulations. future laws and regulations with respect to the collection, compilation, use, and publication of information and consumer privacy could result in limitations on our operations, increased compliance or litigation expense, adverse publicity, or loss of revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our customers' needs. 10 table of contents we may also from time to time be subject to, or face assertions that we are subject to, additional obligations relating to personal data by contract or due to assertions that self-regulatory obligations or industry standards apply to our practices. exposure to litigation and government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in the normal course of business, both in the united states and abroad, we and our subsidiaries are defendants in numerous legal proceedings and are often the subject of government and regulatory proceedings, investigations and inquiries, as discussed under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this annual report on form 10-k and in note 13 - commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under item 8, consolidated financial statements and supplementary data , in this annual report on form 10-k, and we face the risk that additional proceedings, investigations and inquiries will arise in the future. many of these proceedings, investigations and inquiries relate to the activity of our ratings, indices, and platts businesses. in addition, various government and self-regulatory agencies frequently make inquiries and conduct investigations into our compliance with applicable laws and regulations, including those related to our regulated activities and antitrust matters. any of these proceedings, investigations or inquiries could ultimately result in adverse judgments, damages, fines, penalties or activity restrictions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in view of the uncertainty inherent in litigation and government and regulatory enforcement matters, we cannot predict the eventual outcome of the matters we are currently facing or the timing of their resolution, or in most cases reasonably estimate what the eventual judgments, damages, fines, penalties or impact of activity restrictions may be. as a result, we cannot provide assurance that the outcome of the matters we are currently facing or that we may face in the future will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as litigation or the process to resolve pending matters progresses, as the case may be, we continuously review the latest information available and assess our ability to predict the outcome of such matters and the effects, if any, on our consolidated financial condition, cash flows, business and competitive position, which may require that we record liabilities in the consolidated financial statements in future periods. legal proceedings impose additional expenses on the company and require the attention of senior management to an extent that may significantly reduce their ability to devote time addressing other business issues. risks relating to legal proceedings may be heightened in foreign jurisdictions that lack the legal protections or liability standards comparable to those that exist in the united states. in addition, new laws and regulations have been and may continue to be enacted that establish lower liability standards, shift the burden of proof or relax pleading requirements, thereby increasing the risk of successful litigations against the company in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. these litigation risks are often difficult to assess or quantify and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may not have adequate insurance or reserves to cover these risks, and the existence and magnitude of these risks often remains unknown for substantial periods of time and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increasing regulation of our ratings business in the united states, europe and elsewhere can increase our costs of doing business and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is highly regulated, rapidly evolving and subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states, europe and elsewhere. the businesses conducted by ratings are in certain cases regulated under the credit rating agency reform act of 2006 (the reform act ), the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act (the dodd-frank act ), the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ), and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years, the u.s. congress, the international organization of securities commissions ("iosco"), the sec and the european commission, including through the european securities market authority ("esma"), as well as regulators in other countries in which ratings operates, have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are being considered by local, national and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future, including provisions seeking to reduce regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings, and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies. these laws and regulations, and any future rule-making, could result in reduced demand for credit ratings and increased costs, which we may be unable to pass through to customers. in addition, there may be uncertainty over the scope, interpretation and administration of such laws and regulations. we may be required to incur significant expenses in order to comply with such laws and regulations and to mitigate the risk of fines, penalties or other sanctions. legal proceedings 11 table of contents could become increasingly lengthy and there may be uncertainty over and exposure to liability. it is difficult to accurately assess the future impact of legislative and regulatory requirements on our business and our customers' businesses, and they may affect ratings' communications with issuers as part of the rating assignment process, alter the manner in which ratings' ratings are developed, affect the manner in which ratings or its customers or users of credit ratings operate, impact the demand for ratings and alter the economics of the credit ratings business. each of these developments increases the costs and legal risk associated with the issuance of credit ratings and may have a material adverse effect on our operations, profitability and competitiveness, the demand for credit ratings and the manner in which such ratings are utilized. additional information regarding rating agencies is provided under item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this annual report on form 10-k. our indices and platts businesses are subject to a new and evolving regulatory regimes in europe and the potential for increased or changing regulations in the united states and elsewhere. our indices business is subject to a new regulatory regime in australia. our indices, market intelligence and platts businesses are subject to additional regulation in europe and our market intelligence business is subject to investment advisory regulation in the united states and europe. this changing regulatory landscape can increase our exposure, compliance risk and costs of doing business globally and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition to the extensive and evolving u.s. laws and regulations, foreign jurisdictions have taken measures to increase regulation of the financial services and commodities industries. in october of 2012, iosco issued its principles for oil price reporting agencies ("pra principles"), which iosco states are intended to enhance the reliability of oil price assessments that are referenced in derivative contracts subject to regulation by iosco members. platts has taken steps to align its operations with the pra principles and, as recommended by iosco in its final report on the pra principles, has aligned to the pra principles for other commodities for which it publishes benchmarks. in july of 2013, iosco issued its principles for financial benchmarks ("financial benchmark principles"), which are intended to promote the reliability of the benchmark determination process by setting standards related to benchmark governance, benchmark quality, transparency and accountability mechanisms, including with regard to the indices and benchmarks published by indices. indices has taken steps to align its governance regime, control framework and operations with the financial benchmark principles and engages an independent auditor to perform an annual reasonable assurance review of its adherence to the financial benchmark principles. the benchmark industry is subject to regulation in the eu (the eu benchmark regulation ) as well as potential increased regulation of financial benchmarks in other jurisdictions. the eu benchmark regulation was published on june 30, 2016, with provisions applicable to indices and platts, effective from january 1, 2018. esma has published additional guidance clarifying that existing benchmark administrators such as indices and platts may utilize the transitional provisions contained in the eu benchmark regulation, which provides them two (2) years to implement and seek authorization by an eu national competent authority by january 1, 2020, with their respective benchmark activities in europe. this legislation will likely cause additional operating obligations, greater compliance risk and costs for indices and platts but they are not expected to be material at this time, although the exact impact remains unclear. indices is subject to the new benchmark regulation in australia under which it is required to obtain a license from and be subject to the supervision of the australian securities and investment commission regarding its administration of the s&amp;p asx 200 index. this legislation will likely cause additional operating obligations, greater compliance risk and costs for indices but they are not expected to be material at this time, although the exact impact remains unclear. the eu's package of legislative measures called the markets in financial instruments directive and regulation (collectively "mifid ii") entered into force in 2014, revising and updating the prior markets in financial instruments directive (2004) and its associated secondary legislation. the substantive provisions of mifid ii apply in all eu member states since 2018. mifid ii includes provisions that, among other things: (i) mandate conditions and requirements on the licensing of benchmarks for the purposes of clearing related securities and provide for non-discriminatory access to exchanges and clearing houses for this purpose; (ii) modify the categorization and treatment of certain classes of derivatives; (iii) expand the categories of trading venues that are subject to regulation; (iv) require the unbundling of investment research from other services, including execution services, and direct that investment firms must pay for research either out of a dedicated research payment account which is paid for by clients or from the investment firm's profits; and (v) provide for the mandatory trading of certain derivatives on exchanges (complementing the mandatory derivative clearing requirements in the eu market infrastructure regulation of 2011, or emir). the mifid ii package may result in changes to the manner in which s&amp;p dow jones indices and platts license their indices and price assessments, respectively, and could also have an indirect impact on the credit ratings and third-party research products offered by other divisions of the company for use within the eu. mifid ii and the market abuse regulation ( mar ) may impose 12 table of contents additional regulatory burdens on the activities of s&amp;p dow jones indices and platts in the eu, although the exact impact and costs are not yet known. market intelligence operates regulated investment advisory businesses in the united states and the european union. this business and other market intelligence businesses may increasingly become subject to new or more stringent regulations that will increase the cost of doing business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our international business activities must comport with u.s. international trade restraints, including economic sanctions regulations administered by the u.s. treasury department's office of foreign assets controls. as a global company headquartered in the u.s., we are subject to u.s. laws and regulations, including economic sanction laws. these laws include prohibitions or restrictions on the sale or supply of certain products and services to embargoed or sanctioned countries, regions, governments, persons and entities. embargoes and sanctions laws are changing rapidly for certain geographies, including with respect to iran, russia, and venezuela. these embargoes and sanctions laws may affect our ability to continue to market and/or sell our products and services into these geographies and in turn adversely impact our revenue from such geographies. additional international trade restraints may be promulgated at any time and may require changes to our operations and increase our risk of noncompliance. failure to comply with these laws and regulations can result in significant fines and penalties and related material adverse effects on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. our acquisitions and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results. we have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions or enter into other strategic transactions to strengthen our business and grow our company. such transactions present significant challenges and risks. the market for acquisition targets and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect our ability to complete such transactions. if we are unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. for instance, the process of integration may require more resources than anticipated, we may assume unintended liabilities, there may be unexpected regulatory and operating difficulties and expenditures, we may fail to retain key personnel of the acquired business and such transactions may divert management's focus from other business operations. the failure of acquisitions and other strategic transactions to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. some of our products support the investment processes and other activities of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. use of our products as part of such activities, including the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects, despite testing and/or other quality assurance practices. such errors may exist during any part of a product's life cycle and may persist notwithstanding testing and/or other quality assurance practices. deploying products containing such errors may damage our reputation and the costs associated with remediating such errors may have an impact on our profitability. further, certain of our products rely on proprietary methodologies, models and processes that are subject to various internal governance and control frameworks. despite ongoing review and quality assurance processes, these methodologies, models and processes as well as their respective inputs may also contain undetected errors or defects that may damage our reputation and the costs associated with remediating such errors may have an impact on our profitability. any claim relating to our products, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 13 table of contents increased competition could result in a loss of market share or revenue. the markets for credit ratings, financial research, investment advisory services, market data, index-based products, and commodities price assessments and related news and information about these markets are intensely competitive. ratings, market intelligence, platts and indices compete domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of their offerings, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. while our businesses face competition from traditional content and analytics providers (including exchanges), we also face competition from non-traditional providers, such as asset managers, investment banks and technology-led companies that are adding content and analytics capabilities to their core businesses. in addition, in some of the countries in which ratings competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. sustained downward pressure on oil and other commodities prices and trading activity in those markets could have a material adverse effect on the rate of growth of platts' revenue, including subscription and licensing fees. introduction of new or enhanced products and services could impact our profitability. we operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and enhancements, including new ways to deliver our products and services. these new or enhanced offerings resulting from our investments may not achieve market acceptance, may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. we could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment in which we operate. our ability to develop, adapt, or implement new and improved processes and technology may adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. the rapid change of technology is a key feature of all of the markets in which we operate. to succeed in the future, we will need to deploy improved processes and technology to innovate, design, develop, assemble, test, market, and support new products and enhancements to our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner. innovation and constant development in support of new products and enhancements to existing products calls for the implementation of new and improved processes and technologies that require related change management efforts. while we employ a certain level of internal and external resources to mitigate the risks associated with implementing process and technology improvements, we may face unexpected challenges in execution that may require more management attention than expected, thus diverting management time and energy from other businesses. the foregoing and other unforeseen factors could also result in business being disrupted for a period of time as well as additional commitments of financial resources. a significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. our major expenditures include employee compensation and capital investments. we offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require. we make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives and we cannot provide assurances that such investments will result in increased revenues. although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. increased availability of free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in recent years, more public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information have become available, particularly through the internet, and advances in public cloud computing and open source software may continue. public sources of free or relatively inexpensive information can reduce demand for our products and services. demand could also be reduced as a result of cost-cutting initiatives at certain companies and organizations. although we believe 14 table of contents our products are enhanced by our analysis, tools and applications, our financial results may be adversely affected if our customers choose to use these public sources as a substitute for our products or services. consolidation of customers as well as staffing levels across our customer base could impact our available markets and revenue growth. our businesses have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the corporate, financial services and commodities industries. the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions across these industries can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. our customers that strive to reduce their operating costs may seek to reduce their spending on our products and services. if a large number of smaller customers or a critical number of larger customers reduce their spending with us, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. alternatively, customers may use other strategies to reduce their overall spending on financial and commodity market products and services by consolidating their spending with fewer vendors, including by selecting other vendors with lower-cost offerings, or by self-sourcing their need for financial and commodity market products and services. if customers elect to consolidate their spending on financial and commodity market products and services with other vendors and not us, if we lose business to lower priced competitors, or if customers elect to self-source their product and service needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. a material portion of our revenues in our indices business is concentrated in some of our largest customers, who have significant assets under management in index funds and exchange-traded funds. a loss of a substantial portion of revenue from our largest customers could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. some of our products and their related value are dependent upon updates from our data suppliers and most of our information and data products are dependent upon continuing access to historical and current data. we utilize certain data provided by third-party data sources in a variety of ways, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. if the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice. termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider's information could decrease the available information for us to use (and offer our clients) and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position. we consider many of our products and services to be proprietary. failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm the value of and revenue generated by such assets as well as our reputation and affect our ability to compete effectively. businesses we acquire may also have intellectual property portfolios which increase the complexity of managing our intellectual property portfolio and protecting our competitive position. our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of digital and other media. our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property rights against infringement and misappropriation. our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. for example, we do business in a number of countries included on the priority watch list maintained by the office of the united states trade representative and which are currently thought to afford less protection to intellectual property rights generally than some other jurisdictions. the lack of strong patent and other intellectual property protection in jurisdictions such as referenced above may significantly increase our vulnerability as regards unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property and undermine our competitive position. our products also contain intellectual property of third party sources. any violation by us of the intellectual property rights of such third parties could result in termination of the relevant source agreement, litigation and reputational damage which could materially and adversely affects our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 table of contents recent and future legislation, regulatory reform or policy changes under the current u.s. administration could have a material effect on our business and results of operations. legislation, regulatory reform or policy changes under the current u.s. administration, such as financial services regulatory reform, u.s. oil deregulation, government-sponsored enterprise reform and increased infrastructure spending and significant changes in trade policy (including sanctions), could impact our business. any of the forgoing changes could impact our results of operations and cash flows directly; such changes may also impact our business by creating increased volatility and uncertainty in the financial and commodities markets. at this time, we cannot predict the scope or nature of these changes or assess what the overall effect of such potential changes could be on our results of operations or cash flows. the tax cuts and jobs act (the tcja ) enacted in 2017 in the united states significantly changed the tax rules applicable to u.s. domiciled corporations. changes such as lower corporate tax rates, full expensing for qualified property, taxation of offshore earnings, limitations on interest expense deductions, and changes to the municipal bond tax exemption may impact demand for our products and services. while lower than usual issuance following effectiveness of the tcja initially impacted our business, at this time, we cannot assess what the overall effect of such legislation could be on our results of operations or cash flows over the longer term. in addition, the tcja is unclear in certain respects and will require interpretations and implementing regulations by the internal revenue service, as well as state tax authorities, and the tcja could be subject to amendments and technical corrections, any of which could lessen or increase the impacts of the tcja. regulatory changes and economic conditions leading up to and following the united kingdom's withdrawal from the eu could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. voters in the united kingdom ("uk") approved an exit from the eu via a referendum in 2016 and in 2017, the uk invoked article 50 of the treaty on the eu, commencing the process to leave the eu ( brexit ) and on january 31, 2020, the uk formally exited the eu. negotiations on the terms of the uk's future relationship with the eu are ongoing. the uk is expected to enter a transition period until december 31, 2020 permitting negotiation of a free trade deal. the consequences for the economies of the uk and eu member states as a result of the uk's withdrawal from the eu remain unknown and unpredictable. any impact from brexit on the company will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, trade and other negotiations. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations between the uk and the eu as the uk determines which eu laws to replace or replicate and the eu determines how to treat regulated activities (e.g., the activities of credit rating agencies) originating in the uk. our businesses are subject to increasing regulation of the financial services and commodities industries in europe. potential changes in eu regulation and/or additional regulation in the uk could cause additional operating obligations and increased costs for our businesses. in particular, our ratings business will, for the first time, be subject to regulation by the financial conduct authority effective january 1, 2021. changes to uk immigration policy as a result of brexit could adversely affect our ability to retain talent for our european operations. any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could adversely affect our business, business opportunities, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. the lack of certainty given the pending negotiations creates the risk that notwithstanding that we have devoted valuable resources to a thorough preparation for the impact of brexit on our european operations, we may not be adequately prepared for an unforeseen outcome. our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem could cause material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm or legal liability. should we experience a local or regional disaster or other business continuity problem, such as an earthquake, hurricane, flood, terrorist attack, outbreak of pandemic or contagious diseases (including, but not limited to, 2019 novel coronavirus, ebola, zika, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, h1n1 (swine flu) and middle east respiratory syndrome), security breach, cyber attack, power loss, telecommunications failure or other natural or man-made disaster, our ability to continue to operate will depend, in part, on the availability of our personnel, our office facilities and the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. in such an event, we could experience operational challenges with regard to particular areas of our operations, such as key executive officers or personnel, that could have a material adverse effect on our business. we regularly assess and take steps to improve our existing business continuity plans and key management succession. however, a disaster on a significant scale or affecting certain of our key operating areas within or across regions, or our inability to successfully recover should we experience a disaster or other business continuity problem, could materially 16 table of contents interrupt our business operations and result in material financial loss, loss of human capital, regulatory actions, reputational harm, damaged client relationships or legal liability. outsourcing certain aspects of our business could result in disruption and increased costs. we have outsourced certain functions to third-party service providers to leverage leading specialized capabilities and achieve cost efficiencies. outsourcing these functions involves the risk that the third-party service providers may not perform to our standards or legal requirements, may not produce reliable results, may not perform in a timely manner, may not maintain the confidentiality of our proprietary information, or may fail to perform at all. failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, confidentiality, or other obligations to us could result in material financial loss, higher costs, regulatory actions and reputational harm. outsourcing these functions also involves the risk that the third-party service providers may not maintain adequate physical, technical and administrative safeguards to protect the security of our confidential information and data. failure of these third parties to maintain these safeguards could result in unauthorized access to our systems or a system or network disruption that could lead to improper disclosure of confidential information or data, regulatory penalties and remedial costs. we also rely on the business infrastructure and systems of third parties with whom we do business and to whom we outsource the maintenance and development of operational and technological functionality, including third-party cloud infrastructure. our cloud infrastructure providers, or other service providers, could experience system breakdowns or failures, outages, downtime, cyber attacks, adverse changes to financial condition, bankruptcy or other adverse conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and reputation. thus, our plans to increase the amount of our infrastructure that we outsource to the cloud or to other third parties may increase our risk exposure. we rely heavily on network systems and the internet and any failures or disruptions may adversely affect our ability to serve our customers. many of our products and services are delivered electronically, and our customers rely on our ability to process transactions rapidly and deliver substantial quantities of data on computer-based networks. our customers also depend on the continued capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems, our websites and the internet. our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may be impaired due to infrastructure or network failures, malicious or defective software, human error, natural disasters, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. delays in our ability to deliver our products and services electronically may harm our reputation and result in the loss of customers. in addition, a number of our customers entrust us with storing and securing their data and information on our servers. although we have disaster recovery plans that include backup facilities for our primary data centers, our systems are not always fully redundant, and our disaster planning may not always be sufficient or effective. as such, these disruptions may affect our ability to store, handle and secure such data and information. our operations and infrastructure may malfunction or fail, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our ability to conduct business may be materially and adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located, including new york city, the location of our headquarters, and major cities worldwide in which we have offices. this may include a disruption involving physical or technological infrastructure used by us or third parties with or through whom we conduct business, whether due to human error, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures, break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, acts of terrorism, political unrest, war or otherwise. our efforts to secure and plan for potential disruptions of our major operating systems may not be successful. we rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. we believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our business could be subject to significant disruption and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or unauthorized access to our systems. we also do not have fully redundant systems for most of our smaller office locations and low-risk systems, and our disaster recovery plan does not include restoration of non-essential services. if a disruption occurs in one of our locations or systems and our personnel in those locations or those who rely on such systems are unable to utilize other systems or 17 table of contents communicate with or travel to other locations, such persons' ability to service and interact with our clients and customers may suffer. we cannot predict with certainty all of the adverse effects that could result from our failure, or the failure of a third party, to efficiently address and resolve these delays and interruptions. a disruption to our operations or infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. inability to attract and retain key qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the development, maintenance and support of our products and services are dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, our business is dependent on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. if the company is less successful in its recruiting efforts, or if it is unable to retain key employees, its ability to develop and deliver successful products and services or achieve strategic goals may be adversely affected. our reputation, credibility, and brand are key assets and competitive advantages of our company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. our reputation, credibility, and the strength of our brand are key competitive strengths. given our role in the financial and commodities markets, our ability to attract and retain customers is uniquely affected by external perceptions of our reputation, credibility, and brand. negative perceptions or publicity could damage our reputation with customers, prospects, regulators, and the public generally, which could negatively impact, among other things, our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and suppliers, as well as suitable candidates for acquisition or other combinations. damage to our reputation, credibility, and brand could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our expansion into and investments in new markets may not be successful. we believe there remains significant opportunity to expand our business into major geographic and product markets (including china and esg) and we are in the process of such expansion efforts. expansion into new markets requires significant levels of investment and attention from management. there can be no assurance that these markets will develop as anticipated or that we will have success in these markets, and if we do not, we may be unable to recover our investment spent to expand our business into these markets and may forgo opportunities in more lucrative markets, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to multiple risks associated with the global nature of our operations. the geographic breadth of our activities subjects us to significant legal, economic, operational, market, compliance and reputational risks. these include, among others, risks relating to: economic and political conditions around the world, inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, limitations that foreign governments may impose on the conversion of currency or the payment of dividends or other remittances to us from our non-u.s. subsidiaries, differing accounting principles and standards, unexpected increases in taxes or changes in u.s. or foreign tax laws, potential costs and difficulties in complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations (including tax systems) administered by foreign government agencies, some of which may conflict with u.s. or other sources of law, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, the possibility of nationalization, expropriation, price controls and other restrictive governmental actions, competition with local rating agencies that have greater familiarity, longer operating histories and/or support from local governments or other institutions, and civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 18 table of contents additionally, we are subject to complex u.s., european and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to our operations abroad, including trade sanctions laws, anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the uk bribery act 2010, anti-money laundering laws, and other financial crimes laws. our internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs related to these topics may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. a determination that we have violated such laws could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies, or restrictions on business conduct and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, financial condition or results of operations. embargoes and sanctions laws are changing rapidly for certain geographies, including with respect to russia, iran, and venezuela. these embargoes and sanctions laws may affect our ability to continue to market and/or sell our products and services into these geographies. in addition, while we have a compliance program in place designed to reduce the likelihood of potential violations of import and export laws and sanctions, violations of these laws or sanctions could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 table of contentsmarket risk incorporated herein by reference from exhibit (13), from the 2001 annual report to shareholders, page 36.market risk incorporated herein by reference from exhibit (13), from the 2002 annual report to shareholders, pages 45 to 46.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk incorporated herein by reference from exhibit (13), from the 2003 annual report to shareholders, pages 53 to 54.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk incorporated herein by reference from exhibit (13), from the 2004 annual report to shareholders, page 43.risk factors as required the company is providing the following cautionary statements which identify factors that could cause the company actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results. it is not possible to foresee or identify all such factors. investors should not consider this list an exhaustive statement of all risks and uncertainties. historical growth rates continuance of the company historical growth rate depends upon a number of uncertain events including the outcome of the company strategies of expanding its penetration in global markets, introduction of new products and services, and acquisitions. difficulties, delays or failure of the company strategies could cause the future growth of the company to differ materially from its historical growth rate. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets the company results could be adversely affected by a reduction in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets. unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which standard poor provides ratings services. in addition, increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant 2 table of contents political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered. a sustained period of market decline or weakness could also have a material adverse effect on the company results. changes in educational funding the company u.s. educational textbook and testing businesses may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding as a result of changes in legislation, both at the federal and state level, changes in the state procurement process and changes in the condition of the local, state or u.s. economy. while in the past few years the availability of state and federal funding for elementary and high school education has improved due to legislative mandates such as no child left behind (nclb) and reading first, future changes in the state and local tax base could create an unfavorable environment, leading to state budget issues resulting in a decrease in educational funding. cyclical nature of customers businesses a significant portion of the company sales are to customers in educational markets. the school education group and the industry it serves are influenced strongly by the magnitude and timing of state adoption opportunities. approximately 20 states currently use an adoption process to purchase textbooks. in the remaining states, known as open territories , textbooks are purchased independently by local district or individual schools. the 2006 adoption market is projected to decline 25% compared to 2005 which was one of the largest new state adoptions in the last decade. while the adoption opportunities in 2007 and beyond are expected to increase there is no guarantee that the company will be successful in the new state adoption market. changes in the global advertising markets / affiliation agreements advertising is a significant source of revenue in the information media segment. in general, demand for advertising tends to correlate with changes in the level of economic activity in the united states and in the markets the company serves. in addition, world, national and local events may affect advertising demand. competition from other forms of media such as other magazines, broadcasters and web sites, affects the company ability to attract and retain advertisers. in addition, significant changes in the company network affiliation agreements could affect the profitability of the company broadcasting operations. possible loss of market share or revenue through competition or regulation the market for credit ratings as well as research, investment and advisory services is very competitive. the financial services segment competes domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including quality of ratings, research and investment advice, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and services, and technological innovation. in addition, in some of the countries in which standard poor competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. the financial services industry is also subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states and abroad. the businesses conducted by the financial services segment are in certain cases regulated under the u.s. investment advisers act of 1940, the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, the national association of securities dealers and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years the securities and exchange commission (sec), the european commission, through the committee of european securities regulators (cesr) and the international organization of securities commissions (iosco), a global group of securities commissioners, 3 table of contents have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. in addition, european union member states are in the process of implementing the european commission market abuse directive which, depending on how the directive is implemented, could affect rating agencies communications with issuers as part of the rating process. local, national and multinational bodies have considered and adopted other legislation and regulations relating to credit rating agencies from time to time and are likely to continue to do so in the future. the company does not believe that any new or currently proposed legislation, regulations or judicial determinations would have a materially adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. however, new legislation, regulations or judicial determinations applicable to credit rating agencies in the united states and abroad could affect the competitive position of standard poor ratings services. additional information on the sec activities regarding rating agencies is provided in the management discussion and analysis section of the company 2005 annual report to shareholders. broadcasting regulations the company broadcast stations are subject to regulatory developments that may affect their future profitability. all television stations are subject to federal communication commission ( fcc ) regulation. television stations broadcast under licenses that are generally granted and renewed for a period of eight years. the fcc regulates television station operations in several ways, including, but not limited to, employment practices, political advertising, indecency and obscenity, sponsorship identification, children programming, issue-responsive programming, signal carriage, ownership, and engineering, transmissions, antenna and other technical matters. introduction of new products or technologies the company operates in highly competitive markets that are subject to rapid change, and the company must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive. there are substantial uncertainties associated with the company efforts to develop new products and services for the markets it serves. the company makes significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may be lower than the margins the company has experienced historically. operating costs and expenses the company major expense categories include employee compensation and printing, paper, and distribution costs for product-related manufacturing. the company offers its employees competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand its businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets the company requires. in addition, the company reported earnings may be adversely affected by changes in pension costs and funding requirements due to poor investment returns and/or changes in pension regulations. paper prices fluctuate based on the worldwide demand and supply for paper in general and for the specific types of paper used by the company. the company overall paper price increase is currently limited due to negotiated price reductions, long-term agreements, and short-term price caps for a portion of paper purchases that are not protected by long-term agreements. the company publications are printed by third parties. the company typically has multi-year contracts for the production of magazines and books, a practice which reduces price fluctuations over the contract term. any significant increase in these costs could adversely affect the company results of operations. 4 table of contents protection of intellectual property rights the company products comprise intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including print, broadcast and digital. the ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on the company ability to defend its intellectual property against infringement. the company operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. exposure to litigation the company is involved in legal actions and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. in addition, the company may face exposure from parties claiming damages as a result of standard poor rating opinions. due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding could have a material effect on the company financial position and results of operations. risk of doing business abroad as the company expands its operations overseas, it faces the increased risks of doing business abroad, including inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, tariffs, nationalization, expropriation, limits on repatriation of funds, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and/or expected operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk incorporated herein by reference from exhibit (13), from the 2005 annual report to shareholders, page 45.risk factors as required the company is providing the following cautionary statements which identify factors that could cause the company actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results. it is not possible to foresee or identify all such factors. investors should not consider this list an exhaustive statement of all risks and uncertainties. historical growth rates continuance of the company historical growth rate depends upon a number of uncertain events including the outcome of the company strategies of expanding its penetration in global markets, introduction of new products and services, and acquisitions. difficulties, delays or failure of the company strategies could cause the future growth of the company to differ materially from its historical growth rate. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets the company results could be adversely affected by a reduction in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets. unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could 2 table of contents reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which standard poor provides ratings services. in addition, increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered. a sustained period of market decline or weakness could also have a material adverse effect on the company results. changes in educational funding the company u.s. educational textbook and testing businesses may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding as a result of changes in legislation, both at the federal and state level, changes in the state procurement process and changes in the condition of the local, state or u.s. economy. while in the past few years the availability of state and federal funding for elementary and high school education has improved due to legislative mandates such as no child left behind (nclb) and reading first, future changes in the state and local tax base could create an unfavorable environment, leading to state budget issues resulting in a decrease in educational funding. cyclical nature of customers businesses a significant portion of the company sales are to customers in educational markets. the school education group and the industry it serves are influenced strongly by the magnitude and timing of state adoption opportunities. approximately 20 states currently use an adoption process to purchase textbooks. in the remaining states, known as open territories , textbooks are purchased independently by local district or individual schools. the 2007 adoption market is projected to increase approximately by 9% to 16% as compared to 2006. while the adoption opportunities in 2007 and beyond are expected to increase there is no guarantee that the company will be successful in the new state adoption market or in open territories. changes in the global advertising markets / affiliation agreements although advertising impact on the mcgraw-hill companies is approximately 5%, advertising is still a significant source of revenue in the information media segment. in general, demand for advertising tends to correlate with changes in the level of economic activity in the united states and in the markets the company serves. in addition, world, national and local events may affect advertising demand. competition from other forms of media such as other magazines, broadcasters and web sites, affects the company ability to attract and retain advertisers. in addition, significant changes in the company network affiliation agreements could affect the profitability of the company broadcasting operations. possible loss of market share or revenue through competition or regulation the markets for credit ratings as well as research, investment and advisory services are very competitive. the financial services segment competes domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including quality of ratings, research and investment advice, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and services, and technological innovation. in addition, in some of the countries in which standard poor competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. the financial services industry is also subject to the potential for 3 table of contents increasing regulation in the united states and abroad. the businesses conducted by the financial services segment are in certain cases regulated under the u.s. credit rating agency reform act of 2006, investment advisers act of 1940, the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, the national association of securities dealers and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years the u.s. congress, the securities and exchange commission (sec), the european commission, through the committee of european securities regulators (cesr) and the international organization of securities commissions (iosco), a global group of securities commissioners, have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. local, national and multinational bodies have considered and adopted other legislation and regulations relating to credit rating agencies from time to time and are likely to continue to do so in the future. the company does not believe that any new or currently proposed legislation, regulations or judicial determinations would have a materially adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. however, new legislation, regulations or judicial determinations applicable to credit rating agencies in the united states and abroad could affect the competitive position of standard poor ratings services. additional information on the sec activities regarding rating agencies is provided in the management discussion and analysis section of the company 2006 annual report to shareholders. broadcasting regulations the company broadcast stations are subject to regulatory developments that may affect their future profitability. all television stations are subject to federal communication commission ( fcc ) regulation. television stations broadcast under licenses that are generally granted and renewed for a period of eight years. the fcc regulates television station operations in several ways, including, but not limited to, employment practices, political advertising, indecency and obscenity, sponsorship identification, children programming, issue-responsive programming, signal carriage, ownership, and engineering, transmissions, antenna and other technical matters. introduction of new products or technologies the company operates in highly competitive markets that are subject to rapid change, and the company must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive. there are substantial uncertainties associated with the company efforts to develop new products and services for the markets it serves. the company makes significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may be lower than the margins the company has experienced historically. the company also could experience threats to its existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment within which the company operates. the company relies on its information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. the company believes it has appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of its information technology including security from unauthorized access and business continuity. the company operating results may be adversely impacted by unanticipated system failures or data corruption. 4 table of contents operating costs and expenses the company major expense categories include employee compensation and printing, paper, and distribution costs for product-related manufacturing. the company offers its employees competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand its businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets the company requires. in addition, the company reported earnings may be adversely affected by changes in pension costs and funding requirements due to poor investment returns and/or changes in pension regulations. paper prices fluctuate based on the worldwide demand and supply for paper in general and for the specific types of paper used by the company. the company overall paper price increase is currently limited due to negotiated price reductions, long-term agreements, and short-term price caps for a portion of paper purchases that are not protected by long-term agreements. the company books and magazines are printed by third parties. the company typically has multi-year contracts for the production of books and magazines, a practice which reduces price fluctuations over the contract term. any significant increase in these costs could adversely affect the company results of operations. the company makes significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives. additionally, the company makes significant investments in the development of programs for the el-hi market place. while the company believes it is prudent in its investment strategies and execution of its implementation plans there is, however, no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. protection of intellectual property rights the company products comprise intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including print, broadcast and digital. the ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on the company ability to defend its intellectual property against infringement. the company operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. exposure to litigation the company is involved in legal actions and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. in addition, the company may face exposure from parties claiming damages as a result of standard poor rating opinions. due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding could have a material effect on the company financial position and results of operations. risk of doing business abroad as the company expands its operations overseas, it faces the increased risks of doing business abroad, including inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, tariffs, nationalization, expropriation, limits on repatriation of funds, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and/or expected operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk incorporated herein by reference from exhibit (13), from the 2006 annual report to shareholders, page 47 .risk factors as required the company is providing the following cautionary statements which identify factors that could cause the company actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results. it is not possible to foresee or identify all such factors. investors should not consider this list an exhaustive statement of all risks and uncertainties. historical growth rates continuance of the company historical growth rate depends upon a number of uncertain events including the outcome of the company strategies of expanding its penetration in global markets, introduction of new products and services, and acquisitions. difficulties, delays or failure of the company strategies could cause the future growth of the company to differ materially from its historical growth rate. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets the company results could be adversely affected by a reduction in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets. unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which standard poor provides ratings services. in addition, increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered. a sustained period of market decline or weakness could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company results could also be adversely affected because of public statements or actions by market participants, government officials and others who may be advocates of increased regulation, regulatory scrutiny or litigation. changes in educational funding the company u.s. educational textbook and testing businesses may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding as a result of changes in legislation, both at the federal and state level, changes in the state procurement process and changes in the condition of the local, state or u.s. economy. while in the past few years the availability of state and federal funding for elementary and high school education has improved due to legislative mandates such as no child left behind ( nclb ) and reading first, future changes in federal funding and the state and local tax base could create an unfavorable environment, leading to budget issues resulting in a decrease in educational funding. 2 table of contents cyclical nature of customers businesses a significant portion of the company sales are to customers in educational markets. the school education group and the industry it serves are influenced strongly by the magnitude and timing of state adoption opportunities. approximately 20 states currently use an adoption process to purchase textbooks. in the remaining states, known as open territories , textbooks are purchased independently by local districts or individual schools. the 2008 adoption market is projected to increase by approximately 10% to 15% as compared to 2007. while the adoption opportunities in 2008 and beyond are expected to increase there is no guarantee that the company will be successful in the new state adoption market or in open territories. changes in the global advertising markets / affiliation agreements although advertising impact on the mcgraw-hill companies is less than 5% of revenue, advertising is still a significant source of revenue in the information media segment. in general, demand for advertising tends to correlate with changes in the level of economic activity in the united states and in the markets the company serves. in addition, world, national and local events may affect advertising demand. competition from other forms of media such as other magazines, broadcasters and web sites, affects the company ability to attract and retain advertisers. in addition, significant changes in the company network affiliation agreements could affect the profitability of the company broadcasting operations. possible loss of market share or revenue through competition or regulation the markets for credit ratings as well as research, investment and advisory services are very competitive. the financial services segment competes domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including quality of ratings, research and investment advice, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and services, and technological innovation. in addition, in some of the countries in which standard poor competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. the financial services industry is also subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states and abroad. the businesses conducted by the financial services segment are in certain cases regulated under the u.s. credit rating agency reform act of 2006, investment advisers act of 1940, the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, the national association of securities dealers and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years the u.s. congress, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ), the european commission, through the committee of european securities regulators ( cesr ) and the international organization of securities commissions ( iosco ), a global group of securities commissioners, have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. local, national and multinational bodies have considered and adopted other legislation and regulations relating to credit rating agencies from time to time and are likely to continue to do so in the future. the company does not believe that any new or currently proposed legislation, regulations or judicial determinations would have a materially adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. however, new legislation, regulations or judicial determinations applicable to credit rating agencies in the united states and abroad could affect the competitive position of standard poor ratings services. additional information on the sec activities regarding rating agencies is provided in the management discussion and analysis section of the company 2007 annual report to shareholders. broadcasting regulations the company broadcast stations are subject to regulatory developments that may affect their future profitability. all television stations are subject to federal communication commission ( fcc ) regulation. television stations broadcast under licenses that are generally granted and renewed for a period of eight years. the fcc regulates television station operations in several ways, including, but not limited to, employment practices, political advertising, indecency and obscenity, sponsorship identification, children programming, issue-responsive programming, signal carriage, ownership, and engineering, transmissions, antenna and other technical matters. introduction of new products or technologies the company operates in highly competitive markets that are subject to rapid change, and the company must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive. there are substantial uncertainties associated with the company efforts to develop new products and services for the markets it serves. the company makes significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may be lower than the margins the company has experienced historically. the company also could experience threats to its existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment within which the company operates. the company relies on its information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. the company believes it has appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of its information technology including security from unauthorized access and business continuity. the company operating results may be adversely impacted by unanticipated system failures or data corruption. 3 table of contents operating costs and expenses the company major expense categories include employee compensation and printing, paper, and distribution costs for product-related manufacturing. the company offers its employees competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand its businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets the company requires. in addition, the company reported earnings may be adversely affected by changes in pension costs and funding requirements due to poor investment returns and/or changes in pension regulations. paper prices fluctuate based on the worldwide demand and supply for paper in general and for the specific types of paper used by the company. the company overall paper price increase is currently limited due to negotiated price reductions, long-term agreements, and short-term price caps for a portion of paper purchases that are not protected by long-term agreements. the company books and magazines are printed by third parties. the company typically has multi-year contracts for the production of books and magazines, a practice which reduces price fluctuations over the contract term. any significant increase in these costs could adversely affect the company results of operations. the company makes significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives. additionally, the company makes significant investments in the development of programs for the el-hi market place. while the company believes it is prudent in its investment strategies and execution of its implementation plans there is, however, no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. protection of intellectual property rights the company products comprise intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including print, broadcast and digital. the ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on the company ability to defend its intellectual property against infringement. the company operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. exposure to litigation the company is involved in legal actions and claims arising from its business practices, as discussed in the management discussion and analysis section of the company annual report to shareholders, and faces the risk that additional actions and claims will be filed in the future. due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding or change in applicable legal standards could have a material effect on the company financial position and results of operations. risk of doing business abroad as the company expands its operations overseas, it faces the increased risks of doing business abroad, including inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, tariffs, nationalization, expropriation, limits on repatriation of funds, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and/or expected operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk incorporated herein by reference from exhibit (13), from the 2007 annual report to shareholders, page 51.risk factors as required, the company is providing the following cautionary statements which identify factors that could cause the company actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results. it is not possible to foresee or identify all such factors. investors should not consider this list an exhaustive statement of all risks and uncertainties. growth rates the company ability to grow depends upon a number of uncertain events including economic conditions, the outcome of the company strategies of expanding its penetration in global markets, introduction of new products and services, and acquisitions. difficulties, delays or failure of the company strategies could cause the future growth of the company to differ materially from its historical growth. changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets the company results could be adversely affected by a reduction in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets. unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which standard poor provides ratings services. in addition, increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered. a sustained period of market decline or weakness could have a material adverse effect on the company. the company results could also be adversely affected because of public statements or actions by market participants, government officials and others who may be advocates of increased regulation, regulatory scrutiny or litigation. changes in educational funding the company u.s. educational textbook and testing businesses may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding as a result of changes in legislation, both at the federal and state level, changes in the state procurement process and changes in the condition of the local, state or u.s. economy. while in the past few years the availability of state and federal funding for elementary and high school education had improved due to legislative mandates such as no child left behind ( nclb ) and reading first, future changes in federal funding and the state and local tax base could create an unfavorable environment, leading to budget issues resulting in a decrease in educational funding. cyclical nature of customers businesses a significant portion of the company sales are to customers in educational markets. the school education group and the industry it serves are influenced strongly by the magnitude and timing of state adoption opportunities. approximately 20 states currently use an adoption process to purchase textbooks. in the remaining states, known as open territories , textbooks are purchased independently by local districts or individual schools. the company internal estimate indicates that the 2009 el-hi market overall is expected to decline 10% to 15%. in addition, despite the size of the market, there is no guarantee that the company will be successful in the state new adoption market or in open territories. 2 table of contents changes in the global advertising markets / affiliation agreements although advertising impact on the mcgraw-hill companies is less than 5% of revenue, advertising is still a significant source of revenue in the information media segment. in general, demand for advertising tends to correlate with changes in the level of economic activity in the united states and in the markets the company serves. in addition, world, national and local events may affect advertising demand. competition from other forms of media such as other magazines, broadcasters and web sites, affects the company ability to attract and retain advertisers. in addition, significant changes in the company network affiliation agreements could affect the profitability of the company broadcasting operations. possible loss of market share or revenue through competition or regulation the markets for credit ratings as well as research, investment and advisory services are very competitive. the financial services segment competes domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including quality of ratings, research and investment advice, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and services, and technological innovation. in addition, in some of the countries in which standard poor competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. the financial services industry is also subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states and abroad. the businesses conducted by the financial services segment are in certain cases regulated under the u.s. credit rating agency reform act of 2006, investment advisers act of 1940, the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, the national association of securities dealers and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years the u.s. congress, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ), the european commission, through the committee of european securities regulators ( cesr ) and the international organization of securities commissions ( iosco ), a global group of securities commissioners, have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. local, national and multinational bodies have considered and adopted other legislation and regulations relating to credit rating agencies from time to time and are likely to continue to do so in the future. the company does not believe that any new or currently proposed legislation, regulations or judicial determinations would have a materially adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. however, new legislation, regulations or judicial determinations applicable to credit rating agencies in the united states and abroad could affect the competitive and financial position of standard poor ratings services. additional information on the sec activities regarding rating agencies is provided in the management discussion and analysis section of the company 2008 annual report to shareholders. broadcasting regulations the company broadcast stations are subject to regulatory developments that may affect their future profitability. all television stations are subject to federal communication commission ( fcc ) regulation. television stations broadcast under licenses that are generally granted and renewed for a period of eight years. the fcc regulates television station operations in several ways, including, but not limited to, employment practices, political advertising, indecency and obscenity, sponsorship identification, children programming, issue-responsive programming, signal carriage, ownership, and engineering, transmissions, antenna and other technical matters. introduction of new products or technologies the company operates in highly competitive markets that are subject to rapid change, and the company must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive. there are substantial uncertainties associated with the company efforts to develop new products and services for the markets it serves. the company makes significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable and even if they are profitable, operating margins for new products and businesses may be lower than the margins the company has experienced historically. the company also could experience threats to its existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment within which the company operates. the company relies on its information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. the company believes it has appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of its information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to its systems and maintain business continuity. the company operating results may be adversely impacted by unanticipated system failures or data corruption. operating costs and expenses the company major expense categories include employee compensation and printing, paper, and distribution costs for product-related manufacturing. the company offers its employees competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand its businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets the company requires. in addition, the company reported earnings may be adversely affected by changes in pension costs and funding requirements due to poor 3 table of contents investment returns and/or changes in pension regulations. paper prices fluctuate based on the worldwide demand and supply for paper in general and for the specific types of paper used by the company. the company overall paper price increase is currently limited due to negotiated price reductions, long-term agreements, and short-term price caps for a portion of paper purchases that are not protected by long-term agreements. the company books and magazines are printed by third parties. the company typically has multi-year contracts for the production of books and magazines, a practice which reduces price fluctuations over the contract term. any significant increase in these costs could adversely affect the company results of operations. the company makes significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives. additionally, the company makes significant investments in the development of programs for the el-hi market place. although the company believes it is prudent in its investment strategies and execution of its implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. protection of intellectual property rights the company products comprise intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including print, broadcast and digital. the ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on the company ability to defend its intellectual property against infringement. the company operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. exposure to litigation the company is involved in legal actions and claims arising from its business practices, as discussed in the management discussion and analysis section of the company annual report to shareholders, and faces the risk that additional actions and claims will be filed in the future. due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding or change in applicable legal standards could have a material effect on the company financial position and results of operations. risk of doing business abroad as the company expands its operations overseas, it faces the increased risks of doing business abroad, including inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, tariffs, nationalization, expropriation, limits on repatriation of funds, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and/or expected operating results. consolidation of customers the company investment services businesses have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the financial services industry. the current challenging business environment and the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions in the financial services industry can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk incorporated herein by reference from exhibit (13), from the 2008 annual report to shareholders, page 51.risk factors we are providing the following cautionary statements which identify all known material risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results. we operate in the educational publishing, financial services and information media markets. certain risk factors are applicable to individual markets while other risk factors are applicable company-wide. company-wide risk factors our ability to grow is dependent on a number of factors including the following: introduction of new products, services or technologies could impact our profitability we operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and new ways to deliver our products and services. these investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. we could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment within which we operate. we rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. we believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our operating results may be adversely impacted by unanticipated system failures or data corruption. a significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability our major expenses include employee compensation and printing, paper, and distribution costs for product-related manufacturing. we offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require. we could experience changes in pension costs and funding requirements due to poor investment returns and/or changes in pension. paper prices fluctuate based on the worldwide demand and supply for paper in general and for the specific types of paper used by us. our overall paper price increase is currently limited due to negotiated price reductions, long-term agreements, and short-term price caps for a portion of paper purchases that are not protected by long-term agreements. 3 table of contents our books and magazines are printed by third parties and we typically have multi-year contracts for the production of books and magazines in order to reduce price fluctuations over the contract term. we make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives as well as significant investments in the development of programs for the el-hi market place. although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including print, broadcast and digital. our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement. our operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. exposure to litigation could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations we are involved in legal actions and claims arising from our business practices, as discussed in the management discussion and analysis section of our annual report to shareholders, and face the risk that additional actions and claims will be filed in the future. due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding or change in applicable legal standards could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. risk of doing business abroad as we continue to expand our operations overseas, we face the increased risks of doing business abroad, including inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, tariffs, nationalization, expropriation, limits on repatriation of funds, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and/or expected operating results. risk factors specific to our financial services segment changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets could have a material impact on our results of operations unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which standard poor provides ratings services. increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered. a sustained period of market decline or weakness could have a material adverse effect on us. our results could be adversely affected because of public statements or actions by market participants, government officials and others who may be advocates of increased regulation, regulatory scrutiny or litigation. increased competition or regulation could result in a loss of market share or revenue the markets for credit ratings as well as research, investment and advisory services are very competitive. our financial services segment competes domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including quality of ratings, research and investment advice, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and services, and technological innovation. in addition, in some of the countries in which standard poor competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. 4 table of contents the financial services industry is subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states and abroad. the businesses conducted by our financial services segment are in certain cases regulated under the u.s. credit rating agency reform act of 2006, investment advisers act of 1940, the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, the national association of securities dealers and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years the u.s. congress, the securities and exchange commission ( sec ), the european commission, through the committee of european securities regulators ( cesr ) and the international organization of securities commissions ( iosco ), a global group of securities commissioners, have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. local, national and multinational bodies have considered and adopted other legislation and regulations relating to credit rating agencies from time to time. we do not believe that any such laws, regulations or rules will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are being considered by local, national, foreign and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future. the impact on us of the adoption of any such laws, regulations or rules remains uncertain. additional information regarding rating agencies is provided in the management discussion and analysis section of our 2009 annual report to shareholders. consolidation of customers could impact our available markets and revenue growth our investment services businesses have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the financial services industry. the current challenging business environment and the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions in the financial services industry can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. risk factors specific to our mcgraw-hill education segment changes in educational funding could materially affect our education businesses our u.s. educational textbook and testing businesses may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding as a result of changes in legislation, both at the federal and state level, changes in the state procurement process and changes in the condition of the local, state or u.s. economy. while in the past few years the availability of state and federal funding for elementary and high school education had improved due to legislative mandates such as no child left behind ( nclb ) and reading first, future changes in federal funding and the state and local tax base could create an unfavorable environment, leading to budget issues resulting in a decrease in educational funding. our education businesses operate in a cyclical environment a significant portion of our sales are to customers in educational markets. our school education group and the industry it serves are influenced strongly by the magnitude and timing of state adoption opportunities. approximately 20 states currently use an adoption process to purchase textbooks. in the remaining states, known as open territories , textbooks are purchased independently by local districts or individual schools. our internal estimate indicates that the 2010 el-hi market overall is expected to increase 6% to 7%. in addition, despite the size of the market, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in the state new adoption market or in open territories. risk factors specific to our information media segment changes in the global advertising markets could materially impact our results although advertising is less than 5% of our revenue, advertising is still a significant source of revenue in our information media segment. in general, demand for advertising tends to correlate with changes in the level of economic activity in the united states and in the markets we serve. in addition, world, national and local events may affect advertising demand. competition from other forms of media such as other magazines, broadcasters and web sites, affects our ability to attract and retain advertisers. 5 table of contents our broadcasting operations are subject to regulatory development that could affect their profitability all television stations are subject to federal communications commission ( fcc ) regulation. television stations broadcast under licenses that are generally granted and renewed for a period of eight years. the fcc regulates television station operations in several ways, including, but not limited to, employment practices, political advertising, indecency and obscenity, sponsorship identification, children programming, issue-responsive programming, signal carriage, ownership, and engineering, transmissions, antenna and other technical matters. changes in the global automotive markets declines in the global automotive industry impacts our ability to sustain or grow our revenue streams associated with business intelligence to that market. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk incorporated herein by reference from exhibit (13), from the 2009 annual report to shareholders, page 52.risk factors we are providing the following cautionary statements which identify all known material risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results. we operate in the financial, education, and business information markets. the business information markets include energy; automotive; construction; aerospace and defense; broadcasting; and marketing/research information services. certain risk factors are applicable to individual markets while other risk factors are applicable company-wide. company-wide risk factors our ability to grow is dependent on a number of factors including the following: introduction of new products, services or technologies could impact our profitability we operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and new ways to deliver our products and services. o these investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. we could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment within which we operate. we rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. we believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our business could be subject to significant disruption and our operating results may be adversely impacted by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or unauthorized access to our systems. 4 table of contents a significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability our major expenses include employee compensation and printing, paper, and distribution costs for product-related manufacturing. o we offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require. o we could experience changes in pension costs and funding requirements due to poor investment returns and/or changes in pension assumptions. o paper prices fluctuate based on the worldwide demand and supply for paper in general and for the specific types of paper used by us. our overall paper price increase is currently limited due to negotiated price reductions, long-term agreements, and short-term price caps for a portion of paper purchases that are not protected by long-term agreements. o our books and magazines are printed by third parties and we typically have multi-year service contracts for the printing of books and magazines in order to reduce price fluctuations over the contract term. o we make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives as well as significant investments in the development of programs for the el-hi market place. although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including print, broadcast and digital. our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement. our operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. exposure to litigation could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations we are involved in legal actions and claims arising from our business practices, as discussed in the management discussion and analysis section of our 2010 annual report to shareholders, and face the risk that additional actions and claims will be filed in the future. due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding or change in applicable legal standards could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. risk of doing business abroad as we continue to expand our operations overseas, we face the increased risks of doing business abroad, including inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, tariffs, nationalization, expropriation, limits on repatriation of funds, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and/or expected operating results. risk factors specific to our standard poor segment changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets could have a material impact on our results of operations unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which p provides credit ratings. increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered. a sustained period of market decline or weakness could have a material adverse effect on us. our results could be adversely affected because of public statements or actions by market participants, government officials and others who may be advocates of increased regulation, regulatory scrutiny or litigation. increased competition or regulation could result in a loss of market share or revenue the markets for credit ratings are very competitive. p competes domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of its ratings, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. 5 table of contents in addition, in some of the countries in which p competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. the financial services industry is subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states and abroad. the businesses conducted by p are in certain cases regulated under the u.s. credit rating agency reform act of 2006, the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. o in the past several years the u.s. congress, the sec, the european commission, through the committee of european securities regulators and the international organization of securities commissions, a global group of securities commissioners, have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. o local, national and multinational bodies have considered and adopted other legislation and regulations relating to credit rating agencies from time to time. we do not believe that any such laws, regulations or rules will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. o other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are being considered by local, national, foreign and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future. the impact on us of the adoption of any such laws, regulations or rules remains uncertain. o additional information regarding rating agencies is provided in the management discussion and analysis section of our 2010 annual report to shareholders. risk factors specific to our mcgraw-hill financial segment increased competition or regulation could result in a loss of market share or revenue the markets for financial research, investment and advisory services are very competitive. mh financial competes domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of its research and advisory services, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and services, and technological innovation. the financial services industry is subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states and abroad. the businesses conducted by mh financial are in certain cases regulated under the u.s. investment advisers act of 1940, the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. o we do not believe that any such laws, regulations or rules will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. o in the future, other laws, regulations and rules relating to financial information may be considered by local, national, foreign and multinational bodies. o additional information regarding mh financial is provided in the management discussion and analysis section of our 2010 annual report to shareholders. consolidation of customers could impact our available markets and revenue growth our businesses within our mh financial segment have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the financial services industry. the current challenging business environment and the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions in the financial services industry can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. risk factors specific to our mcgraw-hill education segment changes in educational funding could materially affect our education businesses our u.s. educational textbook and testing businesses may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding as a result of changes in legislation, both at the federal and state level, changes in the state procurement process and changes in the condition of the local, state or u.s. economy. while in the past few years the availability of state and federal funding for elementary and high school education had improved due to legislative mandates such as no child left behind and reading first, future changes in federal funding and the state and local tax base could create an unfavorable environment, leading to budget issues resulting in a decrease in educational funding. our education businesses operate in a cyclical environment a significant portion of our sales are to customers in educational markets. our school education group and the industry it serves are influenced strongly by the magnitude and timing of state adoption opportunities. approximately 20 states currently use an adoption process to purchase textbooks. in the remaining states, known as open territories , textbooks are 6 table of contents purchased independently by local districts or individual schools. there is no guarantee that we will be successful in the state new adoption market or in open territories. risk factors specific to our mcgraw-hill information media segment changes in the global advertising markets could materially impact our results although advertising is less than 5% of our revenue, advertising is still a significant source of revenue in our i m segment. in general, demand for advertising tends to correlate with changes in the level of economic activity in the united states and in the markets we serve. in addition, world, national and local events may affect advertising demand. competition from other forms of media such as other magazines, broadcasters and web sites, affects our ability to attract and retain advertisers. our broadcasting operations are subject to regulatory development that could affect their profitability all television stations are subject to federal communications commission ( fcc ) regulation. television stations broadcast under licenses that are generally granted and renewed for a period of eight years. the fcc regulates television station operations in several ways, including, but not limited to, employment practices, political advertising, indecency and obscenity, sponsorship identification, children programming, issue-responsive programming, signal carriage, ownership, and engineering, transmissions, antenna and other technical matters. changes in the global automotive markets declines in the global automotive industry impacts our ability to sustain or grow our revenue streams associated with business intelligence to that market. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk this information is included on page 40 of the 2010 annual report to shareholders, which is incorporated herein by reference from exhibit (13).risk factors we are providing the following cautionary statements which identify all known material risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from historical and expected results. we operate in the financial, education, commercial and commodities markets. the commercial markets include automotive, construction, aerospace and defense, and marketing/research information services, while the commodities market includes energy. certain risk factors are applicable to individual markets while other risk factors are applicable company-wide. company-wide risk factors our ability to grow is dependent on a number of factors including the following: introduction of new products, services or technologies could impact our profitability we operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change to adapt to customer needs. in order to maintain a competitive position, we must continue to invest in new offerings and new ways to deliver our products and services. these investments may not be profitable or may be less profitable than what we have experienced historically. we could experience threats to our existing businesses from the rise of new competitors due to the rapidly changing environment within which we operate. we rely on our information technology environment and certain critical databases, systems and applications to support key product and service offerings. we believe we have appropriate policies, processes and internal controls to ensure the stability of our information technology, provide security from unauthorized access to our systems and maintain business continuity, but our business could be subject to significant disruption and our operating results may be adversely impacted by unanticipated system failures, data corruption or unauthorized access to our systems. we are in the process of migrating certain of our financial processing systems to an enterprise-wide systems solution. there can be no certainty that these initiatives will deliver the expected benefits. the failure to migrate successfully may impact our ability to process transactions accurately and efficiently. in addition, the failure to either deliver the application on time, or anticipate the necessary readiness and training needs, could lead to business disruption. a significant increase in operating costs and expenses could have a material adverse effect on our profitability our major expenses include employee compensation and printing, paper, and distribution costs for product-related manufacturing. we offer competitive salary and benefit packages in order to attract and retain the quality employees required to grow and expand our businesses. compensation costs are influenced by general economic factors, including those affecting the cost of health insurance and postretirement benefits, and any trends specific to the employee skill sets we require. we could experience changes in pension costs and funding requirements due to poor investment returns and/or changes in pension assumptions. paper prices fluctuate based on the worldwide demand and supply for paper in general and for the specific types of paper used by us. our overall paper price increase is currently limited due to negotiated price reductions, long-term agreements, and short-term price caps for a portion of paper purchases that are not protected by long-term agreements. our books and magazines are printed by third parties and we typically have multi-year service contracts for the printing of books and magazines in order to reduce price fluctuations over the contract term. we make significant investments in information technology data centers and other technology initiatives as well as significant investments in the development of programs for the el-hi market place. although we believe we are prudent in our investment strategies and execution of our implementation plans, there is no assurance as to the ultimate recoverability of these investments. our ability to protect our intellectual property rights could impact our competitive position our products contain intellectual property delivered through a variety of media, including print and digital. our ability to achieve anticipated results depends in part on our ability to defend our intellectual property against infringement. our operating results may be adversely affected by inadequate or changing legal and technological protections for intellectual property and proprietary rights in some jurisdictions and markets. exposure to litigation could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations we are involved in legal actions and claims arising from our business practices, as discussed under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this form 10-k and in note 13 commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements under item 8, consolidated financial statements and 8 table of contents supplementary data , in this form 10-k, and face the risk that additional actions and claims will be filed in the future. due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding or change in applicable legal standards could have a material effect on our financial position and results of operations. risk of doing business abroad as we continue to expand our operations overseas, we face the increased risks of doing business abroad, including inflation, fluctuation in interest rates and currency exchange rates, changes in applicable laws and regulatory requirements, export and import restrictions, tariffs, nationalization, expropriation, limits on repatriation of funds, civil unrest, terrorism, unstable governments and legal systems, and other factors. adverse developments in any of these areas could cause actual results to differ materially from historical and/or expected operating results. risks associated with the proposed spin-off transaction our previously announced tax-free spin-off is complex in nature and subject to various regulatory approvals, including a favorable letter ruling from the internal revenue service, and may be affected by unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions. these factors could prevent the completion of or otherwise adversely affect or delay the proposed spin-off. completion of the spin-off requires significant time, effort, and expense. any delays in the anticipated completion of the spin-off may increase the expenses which we incur to complete the transaction. the separated businesses could also face unanticipated problems in operating independently, and thus may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the separation. if consummated, the spin-off will result in two separate independent public companies each of which will be a smaller, less diversified company than we currently are with a narrower business focus than we currently have. in addition, diversification of revenues, costs, and cash flows may diminish. as such, it is possible that our results of operations, cash flows, working capital and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility. the spin-off transaction requires us to hire, retain and develop our senior management and a highly skilled workforce for two separate businesses. any unplanned turnover or our failure to develop current leadership positions or to hire and retain a skilled workforce could affect our institutional knowledge base and our competitive advantage. our employees may also be distracted due to uncertainty about their future roles with each of the separate companies pending the completion of the spin-off transaction. in addition, our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees and higher employee turnover. in addition, we plan to outsource certain support functions to third-party service providers in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. if the service providers that we outsource these functions to do not perform effectively, we may not be able to achieve the expected cost savings and depending on the function involved, we may experience business disruption, processing inefficiencies, the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach, or harm employee morale. risk factors specific to s&amp;p ratings changes in the volume of debt securities issued in domestic and/or global capital markets and changes in interest rates and other volatility in the financial markets could have a material impact on our results of operations unfavorable financial or economic conditions that either reduce investor demand for debt securities or reduce issuers willingness or ability to issue such securities could reduce the number and dollar volume of debt issuance for which s&amp;p ratings provides credit ratings. increases in interest rates or credit spreads, volatility in financial markets or the interest rate environment, significant political or economic events, defaults of significant issuers and other market and economic factors may negatively impact the general level of debt issuance, the debt issuance plans of certain categories of borrowers, and/or the types of credit-sensitive products being offered. a sustained period of market decline or weakness could have a material adverse effect on us. our results could be adversely affected because of public statements or actions by market participants, government officials and others who may be advocates of increased regulation, regulatory scrutiny or litigation. increased competition or regulation could result in a loss of market share or revenue the markets for credit ratings are competitive. s&amp;p ratings competes domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of its ratings, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and technological innovation. in addition, in some of the countries in which s&amp;p ratings competes, governments may provide financial or other support to locally-based rating agencies and may from time to time establish official credit rating agencies, credit ratings criteria or procedures for evaluating local issuers. 9 table of contents increased domestic and foreign regulation of the credit rating industry may adversely impact s&amp;p rating business the financial services industry is subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states and abroad. the businesses conducted by s&amp;p ratings are in certain cases regulated under the u.s. credit rating agency reform act of 2006, the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. in the past several years the u.s. congress, the sec, the european commission, through regulators including the international organization of securities commissions and the european securities and markets authority, have been reviewing the role of rating agencies and their processes and the need for greater oversight or regulations concerning the issuance of credit ratings or the activities of credit rating agencies. local, national and multinational bodies have considered and adopted other legislation and regulations relating to credit rating agencies from time to time. we do not believe that any such laws, regulations or rules will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. other laws, regulations and rules relating to credit rating agencies are being considered by local, national, foreign and multinational bodies and are likely to continue to be considered in the future, including provisions seeking to reduce regulatory and investor reliance on credit ratings, rotation of credit rating agencies and liability standards applicable to credit rating agencies. the impact on us of the adoption of any such laws, regulations or rules remains uncertain, but could increase the costs and legal risks relating to s&amp;p rating rating activities. additional information regarding rating agencies is provided under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this form 10-k. risk factors specific to s&amp;p capital iq / s&amp;p indices increased competition or regulation could result in a loss of market share or revenue the markets for financial research, investment and advisory services are very competitive. s&amp;p capital iq / s&amp;p indices competes domestically and internationally on the basis of a number of factors, including the quality of its research and advisory services, client service, reputation, price, geographic scope, range of products and services, and technological innovation. the financial services industry is subject to the potential for increasing regulation in the united states and abroad. the businesses conducted by s&amp;p capital iq / s&amp;p indices are in certain cases regulated under the u.s. investment advisers act of 1940, the u.s. securities exchange act of 1934, and/or the laws of the states or other jurisdictions in which they conduct business. we do not believe that any such laws, regulations or rules will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. in the future, other laws, regulations and rules relating to financial information may be considered by local, national, foreign and multinational bodies. additional information regarding s&amp;p capital iq / s&amp;p indices is provided under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations , in this form 10-k. consolidation of customers could impact our available markets and revenue growth our businesses within s&amp;p capital iq / s&amp;p indices have a customer base which is largely comprised of members from the financial services industry. the current challenging business environment and the consolidation of customers resulting from mergers and acquisitions in the financial services industry can result in reductions in the number of firms and workforce which can impact the size of our customer base. risk factors specific to commodities &amp; commercial increased domestic or foreign regulation of the oil price reporting industry may adversely impact platts business in the fall of 2011, the g20 cannes final summit declaration called upon the international organization of securities commissions (iosco), international energy forum, international energy agency and the organization of petroleum exporting countries to prepare recommendations to improve the functioning and oversight of price reporting companies by mid-2012. in a meeting with representatives of iosco in january 2012, principals at iosco advised platts management that among the recommendations the regulatory group is considering is establishment of formal oversight of price reporting organizations and their processes, or a self-regulatory oversight regime. in addition, new rules that are expected to be adopted by the u.s. commodity futures trading commission (cftc) in 2012 affecting transactions in oil derivatives may implicate platts in relation to its administration of the platts electronic window (ewindow) as a means of determining price assessments in oil. similar new rules and regulations in europe are currently under consideration, albeit on a slower time frame. 10 table of contents we do not believe that any new regulatory or self-regulatory oversight regime, or any such new cftc or other regulations or rules, would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. changes in the global automotive markets declines in the global automotive industry impacts our ability to sustain or grow our revenue streams associated with business intelligence to that market. risk factors specific to mcgraw-hill education segment changes in educational funding could materially affect our education businesses our u.s. educational materials and testing businesses may be adversely affected by changes in state educational funding as a result of changes in federal or state legislation, changes in the state procurement processes and/or changes in the condition of the local, state or u.s. economy. although the elementary and high school education market has benefited over the last several years from programs funded under the no child left behind act of 2002 and, more recently, from additional programs funded under the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, future changes in federal funding and/or state or local tax bases could create an unfavorable environment for education budgets, resulting in a decrease in educational spending. our education businesses operate in a cyclical environment a significant portion of our sales are to customers in educational markets. our school education group and the industry it serves are influenced strongly by the magnitude and timing of state adoption opportunities. approximately 20 states currently conduct a state-level adoption process to review instructional materials, creating approved lists from which local school districts may select. in the remaining states, known as open territories, instructional materials are selected and purchased independently by local districts or individual schools. there is no guarantee that our materials will be successful in the state new adoption market or in open territories.